TM Forum 2023. All Rights Reserved. TM Forum Guidebook Autonomous Operations Maturity Model GB1042 Maturity Level General availability GA Team Approved Date 08Dec2022 Release Status Preproduction Approval Status Member Evaluated Version 1.0.0 IPR Mode RAND GB1042 Autonomous Operations Maturity Model v1.0.0  TM Forum 2023. All Rights Reserved. Page 2 of 25 Notice Copyright  TM Forum 2023. All Rights Reserved. This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to others, and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain it or assist in its implementation may be prepared, copied, published, and distributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any kind, provided that the above copyright notice and this section are included on all such copies and derivative works. However, this document itself may not be modified in any way, including by removing the copyright notice or references to TM FORUM, except as needed for the purpose of developing any document or deliverable produced by a TM FORUM Collaboration Project Team in which case the rules applicable to copyrights, as set forth in the TM FORUM IPR Policy, must be followed or as required to translate it into languages other than English. The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and will not be revoked by TM FORUM or its successors or assigns. This document and the information contained herein is provided on an AS IS basis and TM FORUM DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY OWNERSHIP RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. Direct inquiries to the TM Forum office 181 New Road, Suite 304 Parsippany, NJ 07054, USA Tel No. 1 862 227 1648 TM Forum Web Page www.tmforum.org GB1042 Autonomous Operations Maturity Model v1.0.0  TM Forum 2023. All Rights Reserved. Page 3 of 25 Table of Contents Notice .................................................................................................................... 2 Table of Contents .................................................................................................. 3 1. Executive Summary ............................................................................................ 4 2. Introduction ......................................................................................................... 6 3. Maturity in Autonomous Operations .................................................................... 8 3.1. Background........................................................................................ 9 3.2. Origins ............................................................................................... 9 3.3. Terms .............................................................................................. 10 4. The Model ........................................................................................................ 12 4.1. Scope and Objectives ...................................................................... 12 4.2. Taxonomy of AOMM Levels ............................................................. 12 4.3. Dimensions of Assessment .............................................................. 14 5. Key Assessment Criteria formulation strategy................................................... 17 6. Related Models  Levels .................................................................................. 18 7. Use ................................................................................................................... 20 8. Governance ...................................................................................................... 21 9. References ....................................................................................................... 22 10. Administrative Appendix ........................................................................... 24 10.1. Document History ............................................................................ 24 10.1.1. Version History ........................................................................... 24 10.1.2. Release History .......................................................................... 24 10.2. Acknowledgments ............................................................................ 24 10.2.1. Guide Lead  Author .................................................................. 24 10.2.2. Main Contributors ....................................................................... 24 10.2.3. Reviewers .................................................................................. 24 GB1042 Autonomous Operations Maturity Model v1.0.0  TM Forum 2023. All Rights Reserved. Page 4 of 25 List of Figures Figure 1. Contexts bounding autonomy in ICT realm ................................................... 6 Figure 2. TM Forum Autonomous Operations initiative ................................................ 7 Figure 3. Evolving to outcomebased engagement and operating models ................... 8 Figure 4. Integrating core capabilities of existing capability, behavior and culture maturity models into AOMM. ....................................................................................... 12 Figure 5. Taxonomy of Autonomous Operations Maturity Model ................................ 13 GB1042 Autonomous Operations Maturity Model v1.0.0  TM Forum 2023. All Rights Reserved. Page 5 of 25 Executive Summary New and emerging technologies such as 5G, IoT, extended reality, networks, and services have become increasingly complex to manage and operate. This has shifted the focus of value to the management and operations of the networks and infrastructure supporting the business. Management and operations bottlenecks are seen as the primary frontier to manage business value, and to do so, means to assess key performance requirements that support the delivery of business outcomes. Executing digital transformation strategies to grow business continues to actively explore methods to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of management and operations capabilities. Measuring and improving, as part of management of organizational capabilities, processes andor targeted outcomes is a significant undertaking amidst the growing complexity in technology, sophisticated expectations of customers and the skills required to bring it altogether. Enterprises are inundated with many assessment and maturity models, and where a model is applied voluntarily towards evaluation of performance, enterprises arent confident how to match assessment outcomes with business value. The question of utilizing the right model to identify value propositiondelivery across all management and operations is a requirement to fill the gap left with specific models. Also, the proposition of specific models is key for organizations that are advanced and seeking assessment tools that offer surgical treatment of specific identified capability concerns. Autonomous Operations Maturity Model AOMM brings a unique approach to performance assessment by applying a maturity grid assessment framework that is underscored by the TM Forums DMM, as well as input from other capability assessment models. AOMM maturity grid assessment framework uses learnings from the different maturity model types, their focal points, and their attribution to levels of maturity to establish taxonomy, assessment dimensions and level criteria for when an organization is planningadopting or executing autonomous operations initiative. AOMM is leveraging the hybrid of a process, capability and outcome based approach to define its assessment framework. The assessment framework is formulated to describe characteristics of implemented processes, autonomy capabilities, behaviors and outcomes. This approach is to provide organizations with a best practice assessment framework and methodology that enables take advantage of strategies for AO by assessing ASIS capabilities and behaviors, and setting targets across the core, supporting and enabling business domains. With are over sixty maturity models out there for service providers to use, AOMM is focused on autonomous operations and helps members to navigate AO initiatives, benchmark business investments with outcomes, and to understand and effectively implement performance insights into operations capability gaps. Under the Autonomous Operations initiative, AOMM is established to make sense of all the existing maturity models, such as Digital Maturity Model DMM, Customer Experience Maturity Model CEMM, Autonomous Network Levels ANL, Data Governance Maturity Model, Closed Loop Automation Maturity Model CAMM etc., and provide a model that leverages across these existing models, characteristics that apply to improving autonomous operations projectprogram assessment and steering. GB1042 Autonomous Operations Maturity Model v1.0.0  TM Forum 2023. All Rights Reserved. Page 6 of 25 1. Introduction Autonomy, the right to selfgovernance, and bounded regions possessing the freedom to govern themselves have become new information and communications technology objectives for automation. The term, however, is used in the MAMA project to equally bring into context a management and operations dimension to an enterprises business. In the context of the enterprises business, it addresses all the underlying capabilities, and behaviors about how such capabilities and behaviors result in better control and coordination of business activities and of course outcomes that enable realize business value. Figure 1. Contexts bounding autonomy in ICT realm Autonomous Operations is a realization of business operations for zerotouch operations. As time progresses, operations, and maintenance OM procedures evolve in complexity due to introduction of new technologies, need to realize better customer value delivery and the ramifications on organization and skills. This is resulting in long cycletimes, negative customer experience and operating costs. Experience by members providing managed services, system integration and operational consulting show rising cost in handling trouble tickets based. The negative impact on customer experience is driving members to become more responsive to the use of automation to eliminate the negative trends in business operations. By embracing initiatives and projects in Autonomous Operations, service providers are able to establish new business targets that positively affect customer experience and directly improve topline and bottom line. Service providers establishing bold projects under the autonomous operations ambition integrate proactive prevention and closed loop automation capabilities into their business. These carriers are now able to automatically predict operational concerns in advance, and preemptively act with little or nohuman interventions. GB1042 Autonomous Operations Maturity Model v1.0.0  TM Forum 2023. All Rights Reserved. Page 7 of 25 Figure 2. TM Forum Autonomous Operations initiative Autonomous Operations Maturity Model AOMM supports AO project sponsorship and management to understand process improvements, performance improvements and behavioral characteristics relevant for a successful AO initiative. AOMM provides an enterprise with a structure to assess asis AO processes, capabilities, and outcomes, and enables define goals and improvement targets anchored on business value. By combining capability maturity models with maturity grids, a balance is arrived at between being prescriptive and descriptive about the organizations intent. GB1042 Autonomous Operations Maturity Model v1.0.0  TM Forum 2023. All Rights Reserved. Page 8 of 25 2. Maturity in Autonomous Operations Evolution of operations practices stem at inherent concerns and failures of current practices in the enterprises ability to manage daytoday business to align with growth or market trends, or challenges in engagements with suppliers and partners for managed services and traditional outsourcing ITO, Network Outsourcing etc.. Hints to failures include  Poor objectives and analysis defined from onset   Poor definition of expected mandates  Poor sense of partnership  lack of followthrough with contracts,  Poor service transition   Poor adoption of claimed services  pricing model for managed services is not able to reflect the ongoing state of the enterprise as the business experiences volatile growth. Transitioning from traditional managed services and outsourcing engagements to Autonomous Operations implies an evolution in the measures, value propositions and operating models. Figure 3. Evolving to outcomebased engagement and operating models The following characteristics in IG1301 have been identified to help guide the selection and correlation of autonomous operations assessment against performance metrics. These qualitative characteristics can be managed through the assessment model of AOMM in order to position quantitative measures. The characteristics are recapped here as including  Desirability measurements collected are required for the design or operation  Feasibility measurements have to be collected as often as desired  Validity measurements and their evaluations need to be checked for correctness GB1042 Autonomous Operations Maturity Model v1.0.0  TM Forum 2023. All Rights Reserved. Page 9 of 25  Viability measurements being collected can clearly provide the measurable benefits  Robustness measurement quality must not be affected by changing conditions  Accuracy measurement errors and biases need to be within acceptable limits  Efficiency measurements should not consume too much of the system resource These characteristics are reflected in the AOMM dimensions and in creating the criteria statements. Altogether with the quantitative measures defined based on the value streams, they help to address the different business domains based and reflect the implication defined in the guidelines in GB1040 for defining, improving, or enhancing metrics. 2.1. Background Autonomy through hyperautomation is characterized by three key dimensions reference Figure 1 1 level of automation endpoint based or endtoend, 2 adaptability in behavior not adaptive to adaptive and 3 dimension to governance by self, through other, or by other. TM Forum in the management and operations realm positions autonomous operations as an initiative that enables endtoend automation to achieve zerotouch operations. This covers the redesigning of operations to leverage AI at scale, selfhealing network domains, and the operating models emerging with the advent of 5G, Cloud, AI and Edge Computing. The rapid evolution in management and operations practices is trickling down to service engagement and operating models. Past successes and lessons learned from managing operations since the era of assisted operations, through managed services to endtoend full outsourcing engagement, it is clear, where adaptability and governance lacked sound basis, these engagements failed. Lessons from across the globe have hinted on lack of agility and flexibility on the side of engaging parties to independently and collectively realize value. Autonomous Operations is changing the paradigm with the adoption of new technologies for closed loop management and requirementgoals management to deliver a zerotouch operations ambition where the model of engagement with use of these technologies facilitates better means to achieve enterprise responsiveness, business agility, and improve quality of confidence in driving returns on investments. 2.2. Origins Autonomous Operations Maturity Model is born out of the cumulative work done in TM Forum Digital Maturity Model project, Digital Organization Transformation project DOT Customer Experience Maturity Model project and ongoing work on AIClosed Loop Automation, Autonomous Network Levels and Culture Maturity Model, amongst others. This model is structured to enable harness value of improving a set of capabilities that enable drive business outcomes and supported business value when using the MAMA Framework. To manage the definition and adoption of Autonomous Operations as a collection of capabilities to drive enterprise operations and operational management, AOMM ascribes levels, dimensions and assessment criteria for the capabilities that establish a set of predetermined behavioral patterns of an enterprise or enterprise functions GB1042 Autonomous Operations Maturity Model v1.0.0  TM Forum 2023. All Rights Reserved. Page 10 of 25 exhibiting signs of autonomous operations. Some parallels along these lines can be ascribed to a modern enterprise having the capability to change suppliers in its supply chain management strategy at a fast rate to integrate new resources to cover a gap in shortages of another supplier Case Tesla Works with suppliers to source alternative chips amid semiconductor shortage, Apple, AMD navigate chip shortage with focus on profitable products. The capabilities underpinning these organizations dexterity to be swift, responsive and agile to respond to both market forces and consumer demand can largely be attributed to their autonomous operations ability. In the service provider arena, with particular emphasis on the Communications Service Providers, operations and operational management needs must factor in business outcomes as the cornerstone to drive the business value targets. Operations management with use automation of value fabrics, value chains and value streams that are adaptive and selfgoverning bring resilience to the enterprises business  amidst market forces and helps us to defend and grow marginsprofits. 2.3. Terms  Autonomy The state of quality of being selfgoverning with the capability to adapt to circumstances.  Automation In this guidebook, automation, is the implementation of processes to perform activities towards a goal without human assistance.  Adaptability The quality of being able to adjust to new conditions based on internal and environmental circumstances. It involves the use of information about the environment to select from a repertoire of possible behaviors.  Autonomous Network A selfdriving network with fully automated zerox  zero wait, zero touch, zero trouble innovative networkICT services for vertical industries users and consumers, supporting Selfx selfconfiguration, selfhealing, self optimizing and selfevolving telecom network infrastructure for telecom internal users planning, servicemarketing, operations and management. Refer to TM Forum Autonomous Network Project  AICLA Use of artificial intelligence techniques in closed loop management.  AIOps Use of artificial intelligence techniques to in operations.  Operational Effectiveness Operational effectiveness is how well an enterprise and its business operations put resources to use to deliver services and products. It involves practices that enable a business or organization to maximize the use of inputs, by developing products at a faster pace than competitors or reducing defects. GB1042 Autonomous Operations Maturity Model v1.0.0  TM Forum 2023. All Rights Reserved. Page 11 of 25  Selfgovernance The ability of a person or group to exercise all necessary functions of regulation without intervention from an external authority.  Zerotouch Operations An operations paradigm that is characterized by no human interventions to achieving operational objectives.  Autonomous Operations This is generally referring to operations that are selfgoverning and adaptive to their environment without humanintervention. Beyond selfdriving networks and autonomic technology systems, there are the people and processes that altogether realize the enterprise operations. Autonomous Operations in TM Forum is an initiative to identify, scope out and establish use of AI and related technologies to improve automation towards autonomy. The term autonomous operations hereby define concepts and solutions that enable operations to act to their environment in a tactile way to meet specific needs as their operating mandate in an operating environment. GB1042 Autonomous Operations Maturity Model v1.0.0  TM Forum 2023. All Rights Reserved. Page 12 of 25 3. The Model 3.1. Scope and Objectives Figure 4. Integrating core capabilities of existing capability, behavior and culture maturity models into AOMM. 3.2. Taxonomy of AOMM Levels The TM Forum Autonomous Operations Maturity Model ascribes levels of capability demonstrated by way of people, processes, information, and resources in realizing automation, adaptation, and selfgovernance. Operational management functions are decomposed into planning, scheduling, purchasing, controlling, quality control and inventory control. Initial definition of the TM Forum taxonomy on maturity levels for AOMM is provided in Figure 5 below. The taxonomy leverages the five DMM maturity level taxonomy to AOMM. Referring to Figure 4, this is done purposefully as AOMM can be a digital transformation strategic ambition, albeit with a scale and scope focused on what autonomy means to the organization and its enterprise. GB1042 Autonomous Operations Maturity Model v1.0.0  TM Forum 2023. All Rights Reserved. Page 13 of 25 Figure 5. Taxonomy of Autonomous Operations Maturity Model Added context on the levels  Level 0 ZERO This taxonomy has been included to enable setting a baseline for assessing any function, organization or groups of organizations. It enables set a tone for non existence of this novel concept of autonomybacked technology and business operations concepts, behaviors, and capabilities as a new and emerging foundation, and thus not every organization may be including this in their strategy.  Level 1 INITIATING In Level 1, initiating, the taxonomy identifies the effort an organization or enterprises is making towards incorporating autonomybacked technology and business operations concepts, behaviors and capabilities into the business. It recognizes the existence of an early stage formulation of autonomybacked technology and business operations concepts, behaviors and capabilities in the enterprise.  Level 2 EMERGING In Level 2, emerging, the taxonomy recognizes isolated cases of ongoing implementation of autonomybacked technology and business operations concepts, behaviors and capabilities into specific parts of the enterprises operations, and the linkage to identified business outcomes and then to business value. There is also recognition by the organization of improvements needed, and plans conceived andor in place to realize such improvements.  Level 3. PERFORMING In Level 3, performing, the taxonomy recognizes the coordinated and implementation of innovative approaches to autonomybacked technology and business operations concepts, behavior and capabilities, and how this is executed across multiple partsareasgroupsfunctions of the enterprise. There is also the GB1042 Autonomous Operations Maturity Model v1.0.0  TM Forum 2023. All Rights Reserved. Page 14 of 25 implementation of ongoing expansion and improvements of the approach to autonomybacked technology and business operations concepts, behaviors and capabilities to achieve scale and scope of business outcomes to support business value.  Level 4. ADVANCING In Level 4, advancing, the taxonomy recognizes a coherent organizationwide implementation of autonomybacked technology and operations concepts, behavior and capabilities across the enterprise and using them to achieve competitive advantage.  Level 5. LEADING In level 5, leading, the taxonomy recognizes a bestinclass autonomybacked technology and business operations concepts, behavior and capabilities embedded as a part of the enterprise and with ecosystem partners and by doing so leveraging its achievement to drive leadership of best practices, standards and advancement of autonomous operations adoptions. With the maturation of autonomous operations concepts, technology, behavior and capabilities, this taxonomy will be enhanced or optimized to meet the needs of the industry. 3.3. Dimensions of Assessment The dimensions of assessment juxtapose the three definitive dimensions of assessing autonomous operations with the autonomous operations levels taxonomy to identify and attribute the embodying behaviors and capabilities at each level for each dimension. This will be further reviewed to enable arrive at a more informative set of descriptions while ensuring mutual exclusivity and comprehensively exhaustive principle for dimension, level, and criteria definition. Table 1. High level view on AOMM taxonomy AOMM Level Automation Adaptability SelfGovernance Level 0  No Automation  No adaptability To include the relevance and impact of intelligence in future work  No governanceNo selfgovernance  Accuracy is not scoped. Level 1  Automation at a discrete task level.  Activity used here references to the TM Forum Business process ontology of Process Group   Adaptability is reactive To include the relevance and impact of intelligence in future work  Immature  Applicability  Applicable to existing process for services and operational management  Accuracy is in a low state of application. GB1042 Autonomous Operations Maturity Model v1.0.0  TM Forum 2023. All Rights Reserved. Page 15 of 25 AOMM Level Automation Adaptability SelfGovernance Process  Activity  Activity unit task Level 2  Automation at a workflow level.  Workflow used here references to the TM Forum Business process ontology for Business Process model. A Business Process Model represents a set of Activity units that are automated based on operational journeys.  Adaptability is preventative To include the relevance and impact of intelligence in future work  Developing  Applicability  Applicable to existing process for services and operational management  Accuracy  High accuracy in applying local data in algorithm and then navigating in process flow Level 3  Automation of endto end process by function. Function can be domain or business unit.  This level of automation takes into account the value stream of value realizing stakeholder into account. E.g., a complete functional process that takes into account the value delivered to a customer. It can be within a domain or business unit.  Adaptability is conditionally proactive To include the relevance and impact of intelligence in future work  Compliant  Applicability  Applicable to existing process with generalization across products and services  Accuracy  High accuracy in learning from historical data patterns and managing future occurrence of similar pattern within process flow Level 4  Automation of endto end process cross functionally.  This level of automation takes into account the value chain of the enterprise with cross functional endpoints integrated for stakeholder value delivery. E.g., A crossfunctional process that supports  Adaptability is fully proactive To include the relevance and impact of intelligence in future work  Institutionalized  Applicability  Applicable to existing process with specialization on needs for products and services due to high level of adaptability  Accuracy  High Accuracy in predicting scenario occurrence and taking preemptive decision GB1042 Autonomous Operations Maturity Model v1.0.0  TM Forum 2023. All Rights Reserved. Page 16 of 25 AOMM Level Automation Adaptability SelfGovernance a customer based on operational journeys. Level 5  Automation of endto end process groups across the enterprise.  This level of automation takes into account the value fabric, which could span multiple organizations working together to create an ecosystem.  Adaptability is predictive To include the relevance and impact of intelligence in future work  Mature  All Selfx e.g., optimizing, healing, configuring etc.  Applicability Applicable to existing and new processes for existing and new products  services with human centric intelligence i.e., capable of self defining new processes and adjusting the operational flow.  Accuracy  High accuracy like human expert in decision making and implementation Included level only to enable establish a zero baseline. GB1042 Autonomous Operations Maturity Model v1.0.0  TM Forum 2023. All Rights Reserved. Page 17 of 25 4. Key Assessment Criteria formulation strategy Six assessment criteria formulation approaches have been analyzed to determine and drive the evolution of AOMM with backward compatibility at all times. These six types, including diagnostic criteria, formative criteria, summative criteria, ipsative criteria, normreferenced criteria and criterionreferenced criteria each play a specific role in identifying and attributing assessment scores to enterprises or service delivery functions exhibiting autonomous operations behavior. In the effort of TM Forum members to make the assessment criteria valid, reliable, equitable, explicit and transparent to support crossvalidation and crosspollination of experience, most importantly be efficient tool to provide interpretative information about outcomes of investments to stakeholders, criteria are formulated to provide diagnostic insights on the steps that must be taken to deliver value of change andor adaptation in operations that realize business value.  Diagnostic criteria are formulated to identify information needed to understand knowledge of and capabilities of autonomous operations to enable assessors better the engagement for autonomous operations. E.g., What is your level of understanding of Closed Loop automation Or What is your level of understanding of Intent Based Networking Diagnostic criteria are used to identify and segment assesses providing visibility and insights into the organizations AO initiatives.  Formative criteria help to optimize the basis for improving and benchmarking MAMA framework. It helps to align the business outcomes to the AOMMs criteria statements by processing facts, adjusting assumptions, and drawing nuanced conclusions. Meaningful adoption of technologies, processes re engineering and culture change does not always imply the enterprise has the capability to impact business outcomes and change over time. Formative criteria help to track progress where AOMM assessments are done periodically.  Summative criteria help to assess the enterprises ability to learn and adapt progress towards achieving autonomous operations based on specific AO strategic initiative.  Ipsative criteria are formulated to ascertain the attitude of the organization towards autonomous operations and autonomy concepts. E.g., The organization has improved maintenance management using AIagents to operate and manage spares and spares allocation.  Normreferences criteria are designed to enable benchmark objectively given a set of supporting standards that are adjusted periodically. E.g., Is use of AI in Closed Loop Management based on TM Forum standards r2022 or r2023 or Is adoption of Intent Based Networking based on TM Forum common ontology versions or domain specific ontology like 3GPP etc.  Criterionreferenced criteria are formulated to compare performance against an industry defined AO performance standard. GB1042 Autonomous Operations Maturity Model v1.0.0  TM Forum 2023. All Rights Reserved. Page 18 of 25 5. Related Models  Levels Related models and maturity levelsscales that are linked with Autonomous Operations Maturity Model include  DMM Digital Maturity Model  GB997A  This is the overarching master maturity model of TM Forum which represents a strategic decision of an organization to use or apply digital transformation to their business.  CEMMM Customer Experience Management Maturity Model  GB962B  This is the customer experience maturity model which provides a surgical assessment framework of an organizations customer experience centeredness.  AI  DA MM Artificial Intelligence  Data Analytics Maturity Model  GB1003  This is the AI maturity model which focuses on requirement to support and use AI to deliver business outcomes.  RAMM Revenue Assurance Maturity Model  GB941B  This maturity model focuses on the field of revenue assurance and necessary capabilities and focus for driving improvement in revenue assurance.  FMMM Fraud Management Maturity Model  GB969A  This is laid out as a questionnaire with 38 criteria across 4 subdimensions, each with a Yes or No type of answer  SCMM Smart City Maturity Model  TR259  This consists of a set of Survey statements across 5 dimensions  Omni Channel Maturity Model  part of the Omnichannel Guidebook  GB994  This is focused on multichannel use strategies and the interlock needed to deliver seamless multichannel establishment and management.  BDA Big Data Analytics Solution Suite  GB979  This maturity model lays out a set of questions with 89 criteria across 10 dimensions, each with a Yes or No type of answer to understand an organizations big data analytics solution capability.  DGMM Data Governance Maturity Model  GB1025  This maturity model is delivered in a wiki format, It consists of 7 criteria defined across three perspectives Process, People and Technology.  EMM Ecosystem Business Maturity Model  GB1001  Still a work in progress maturity model, it provides a set of criteria and dimensions around how well and healthy an organizations ecosystem is. It is evolving to provide an assessment of ecosystems towards assuring their value fabric.  ANLEM Autonomous Network Levels Evaluation Methodology  IG1252  This is the Autonomous Network levels of maturity.  CMM Culture Maturity Model  GB1019  This is the culture maturity assessment model that focuses on the people and organization side to successful and sustainable business.  DOT Digital Organization Transformation Framework  Is a framework more than a model that ties together DMM with CMM and other sets of tools to provide diagnostics and troubleshooting of the organization practicing or investing into any digital transformation initiative. GB1042 Autonomous Operations Maturity Model v1.0.0  TM Forum 2023. All Rights Reserved. Page 19 of 25 All these models provide some value proposition into AOMM. In future work further details on the leverage into AOMM, along with the specific aspects of AOMM will be defined. GB1042 Autonomous Operations Maturity Model v1.0.0  TM Forum 2023. All Rights Reserved. Page 20 of 25 6. Use A good maturity model serves as a tool that the organization or practitioner can use to measure how well their business or project or set of capabilities are doing, and how capable they are of continuous development. AOMM applies the same goal to define and evaluate the attributes representative of autonomy applied to the enterprises operations. It is meant as one of the tools in the organizations arsenal to consistently and continuously contribute to achieve the business value set out when investments into AO strategic initiative are planned. It will support ANs operations, AICLA operations, AIOps and other AO strategic initiatives to emerge in the future. The trap with maturity models is the misunderstanding the role that a maturity model plays, and what can be expected from the use of one. Every maturity model, by itself, does not ensure organizational improvement. It is an assessment yardstick, an indicator of progress, but not the outcome. A maturity model can help to identify weaknesses, but not fix them. The results of an assessment against a maturity model can help generate an improvement plan, but not execute the plan. It is therefore important to understand the role of AO Maturity Model and to ensure it is carried out through the AO Strategic initiatives, as well as communicating this within the MAMA Framework. For an organization that undertakes the initiative of using any maturity model, the work does not end once the assessment is complete. Although it is true that an organization may have had a goal of achieving a particular level on the chosen model, and that may give cause for celebration, the level needs to match its expected business outcome and attributable business value. AOMM is not meant to be used as a project, or as much as a program. At this time, the model is being defined to enable capture essential characteristics that can enable define clearly what autonomous operations means to the industry, and most importantly to the drive for business value improvement in the wake of new digital technologies, increasing customer experience expectations and business growth beyond connectivity. Organizations embracing an ongoing process of assessments, analysis, improvement plans, etc. will use AOMM to help inform the decision they make in pursuit of higher levels. It is noteworthy that the model does not promote the need to drive higher levels of AOMM at cost of implementation that does not return the needed value. It is the reason AOMM is to be used closely with the other modules in the MAMA framework, such as Value Realization Framework and Value Model and to understand clearly what a level means to the business. The model is also not meant to be a stringent model. It is availed as a baseline for TM Forum members, and industry practitioners to updateupgrade as the industry matures around AO, as well as customizable to meet specific needs of an AO strategic initiative. The organizations goals, strategy, mission and vision are important influences in the adoption, use and extension of AOMM. These elements are subject to change, making the model subject to change. GB1042 Autonomous Operations Maturity Model v1.0.0  TM Forum 2023. All Rights Reserved. Page 21 of 25 7. Governance As the first standard for assessing Autonomous Operations, this guide is subject to the TM Forum Maturity Model Governance guide, IG1216. It follows IG1216 principles to establish its position with DMM the umbrella TM Forum Maturity model. Development, use and enhancement of AOMM will be subject to the requirements defined in IG1216. All specific governance concerns that are unique to AOMM shall be detailed in this guidebook, but without conflict with the overarching TM Forum established guidelines. GB1042 Autonomous Operations Maturity Model v1.0.0  TM Forum 2023. All Rights Reserved. Page 22 of 25 8. References Reference Description Source Brief Use Summary Project Charter MAMA Project Charter IG1031 MAMA Whitepaper  Unlocking business value of Digital Transformation TM Forum Member through leadership that established MAMA project GB1040 Measuring and Managing Autonomy framework standard TM Forum TM Forum best practice framework for Measuring and managing autonomy. SAE Levels of Driving Automation Taxonomy of Six Levels of driving automation SAE Taxonomy reference to SAE J3016 which defines the SAE Levels from Level 0 no driving automation to Level 5 full driving automation in the context of motor vehicles and their operation on roadways. GB997 Digital Maturity Model TM Forum TM Forums Digital Maturity Model offers a practical approach to transformation. It has been crafted over the course of many months by industry thought leaders. CSPs, technology companies, and global advisory firms that have pooled their knowledge and experience to create a model that can be used to identify possible investment priorities and manage the journey itself, stepbystep. Assessing Organizationa l Governance Maturity Governance Maturity Assessment. University of Pretoria, SA. Reference is made to the organizational governance maturity framework by Wilkinson et al., UoP,SA as a tool that can be used to determine governance and therefore selfgovernance maturity. This study determines whether the organizational governance maturity framework can be applied to an industry organization to assess the maturity of the organizations governance, albeit limited to the leadership attribute. The levels in this framework are used as the descriptive label and for future synthesis and expansion into criteria characteristics for assessment. httpsvirtusinterpress.orgIMGpdf10 22495_rcgv6i2art8.pdf GB1042 Autonomous Operations Maturity Model v1.0.0  TM Forum 2023. All Rights Reserved. Page 23 of 25 Reference Description Source Brief Use Summary IG1216 TM Forum Maturity Models Governance Guide TM Forum The purpose of this document is to cover the scope of maturity models that have been formalized as such by the TM Forum, the following paragraph provides a list of such models all other TMF models, frameworks, tools, or assets not listed below are out of scope from a governance perspective in the context of the scope intended by this document. GB1042 Autonomous Operations Maturity Model v1.0.0  TM Forum 2023. All Rights Reserved. Page 24 of 25 9. Administrative Appendix 9.1. Document History 9.1.1. Version History Version Number Date Modified Modified by Description of changes 1.0.0 09Dec2022 Alan Pope Final edits prior to publication 9.1.2. Release History Release Status Date Modified Modified by Description of changes Preproduction 09Dec2022 Alan Pope Initial Release Preproduction 23Jan2023 Adrienne Walcott Updated to Member Evaluated status 9.2. Acknowledgments 9.2.1. Guide Lead  Author Member Title Company Emmanuel A. Otchere VP  CTE Huawei 9.2.2. Main Contributors Team Member Company Role Emmanuel A. Otchere Huawei Lead Dharmendra Misra Wipro Contributor Khiang Chew Goh Huawei Contributor Rohit Chowdhary Nokia Contributor Tim Braulke Huawei Contributor 9.2.3. Reviewers Team Member Company Role Alan Pope TM Forum Reviewer Alfred Anaya TM Forum Reviewer Charlene Wong Huawei Reviewer Delia Deng Huawei Reviewer Khiang Chew Goh Huawei Reviewer GB1042 Autonomous Operations Maturity Model v1.0.0  TM Forum 2023. All Rights Reserved. Page 25 of 25 Team Member Company Role Jacek Hanusik Detecon Reviewer Kishore Rajasekharuni STL Reviewer Liang Ji Lu Huawei Reviewer Maria Bakalouli Intracom Reviewer Mohammad Yasin Tech Mahindra Reviewer Peter Skoularikos Telekinetics Reviewer Rephael Benhamo HCL Reviewer Wanlei Li Huawei Reviewer Yunhe Wu Huawei Reviewer