TM Forum 2023. All Rights Reserved. TM Forum Reference Autonomous Networks Glossary IG1258 Maturity Level Alpha Team Approved Date 31Jan2023 Release Status Preproduction Approval Status Member Evaluated Version 1.0.0 IPR Mode RAND IG1258 Autonomous Networks Glossary v1.0.0  TM Forum 2023. All Rights Reserved. Page 2 of 21 Notice Copyright  TM Forum 2023. All Rights Reserved. This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to others, and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain it or assist in its implementation may be prepared, copied, published, and distributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any kind, provided that the above copyright notice and this section are included on all such copies and derivative works. However, this document itself may not be modified in any way, including by removing the copyright notice or references to TM FORUM, except as needed for the purpose of developing any document or deliverable produced by a TM FORUM Collaboration Project Team in which case the rules applicable to copyrights, as set forth in the TM FORUM IPR Policy, must be followed or as required to translate it into languages other than English. The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and will not be revoked by TM FORUM or its successors or assigns. This document and the information contained herein is provided on an AS IS basis and TM FORUM DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY OWNERSHIP RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. Direct inquiries to the TM Forum office 181 New Road, Suite 304 Parsippany, NJ 07054, USA Tel No. 1 862 227 1648 TM Forum Web Page www.tmforum.org IG1258 Autonomous Networks Glossary v1.0.0  TM Forum 2023. All Rights Reserved. Page 3 of 21 Table of Contents Notice .................................................................................................................... 2 Table of Contents .................................................................................................. 3 Introduction ............................................................................................................ 4 1. Key Terminology ................................................................................................. 5 2. Autonomy versus Automation ........................................................................... 10 3. General AN Terminology .................................................................................. 12 4. AN Level Terminology ...................................................................................... 16 5. Intent Terminology ............................................................................................ 17 6. Administrative Appendix ................................................................................... 21 6.1. Document History ............................................................................ 21 6.1.1. Version History............................................................................. 21 6.1.2. Release History ............................................................................ 21 6.2. Acknowledgments ............................................................................ 21 IG1258 Autonomous Networks Glossary v1.0.0  TM Forum 2023. All Rights Reserved. Page 4 of 21 Introduction This document provides a glossary of terminology relevant to the published deliverables of the Autonomous Networks AN project with the goal to achieve a common glossary across all the AN deliverables and to serve as terminology reference for use across the industry. Where necessary, descriptions providing background for formal concise definitions will also be provided. In addition to terms that are introduced in the AN documents, related terms taken or derived from external industry publications, or existing TM Forum deliverables are also included. For a complete listing of AN deliverables please refer to IG1260 AN Project Deliverables. Text is Italics denotes another term defined within the glossary. IG1258 Autonomous Networks Glossary v1.0.0  TM Forum 2023. All Rights Reserved. Page 5 of 21 1. Key Terminology The following table describes the most important normative definitions from the Autonomous Networks project. Note that Italicized terms in definition text point to other terms defined in this guide Term Abbreviation Definition  Source Autonomous Domain AD An autonomous domain is a system or set of systems or agents that is capable of autonomous behavior e.g., resolve tasks, adhere to objectives without manual human intervention. The autonomous domain does this by realizing self management capabilities using closed control loop mechanisms, using four key phases awareness, analysis, decisionmaking, and execution. It is a domain with an administrative governance boundary that defines the scope of encapsulated autonomous behaviors. IG1230 Autonomous Network AN An Autonomous Network is a system of networks and software platforms that are capable of sensing its environment and adapting its behavior accordingly with little or no human input. IG1230 AN Technical Architecture. AN Level or Autonomy Level ANL AN Levels describe the level of autonomic capability in a given operational workflow or for an autonomous domain L0L5. AN Levels identify contextual autonomous capability IG1230 AN Technical Architecture. AN Levels are a linear scale, 0 through 5 indicating the level of autonomy of an autonomous network or autonomous domain. Each level is described formally in IG 1218   Level 0  manual management The system delivers assisted monitoring capabilities, which means all dynamic tasks have to be executed manually.  Level 1  assisted management The system executes a certain repetitive subtask based on preconfigured to increase execution efficiency.  Level 2  partial Autonomous Networks The system enables partial automatic OM for certain units based on predefined rulepolicy under certain external environments.  Level 3  conditional Autonomous Networks Building on L2 capabilities, the system with awareness can sense realtime environmental changes, and in certain network domains, optimize and adjust itself to the external environment. IG1258 Autonomous Networks Glossary v1.0.0  TM Forum 2023. All Rights Reserved. Page 6 of 21 Term Abbreviation Definition  Source  Level 4  high Autonomous Networks Building on L3 capabilities, the system enables, in a more complicated crossdomain environment, analyze and make decision based on predictive or active closed loop management of service and customer experiencedriven networks.  Level 5  full Autonomous Networks This level is the goal for telecom network evolution. The system possesses closed loop automation capabilities across multiple services, multiple domains, and the entire lifecycle, achieving Autonomous Networks. The AN Level Table that describes those 6 levels of autonomy in terms of human and machine responsibility across the phases of a control loop  see IG1218 or IG1305. The Level table provides a detailed set of metrics that represent multiple aspects of concerns, including control loop phase, and level of human machine interaction HMI, that in combination,indicate a networks level of autonomy. Closed Loop CL A closed loop or closed loop system is one in which the output of the system is continuously monitored and used to adjust the input in order to maintain a desired output. This feedback can be used to make adjustments to the system automatically, with little or no human intervention.Paraphrased from IG1230. See also Control Loop. In control theory, a closed loop system refers to a system in which the output of the system is used to provide a feedback signal to control the input, whereas in an open loop system, the control action is not dependent on the output of the system. The feedback in a closed loop system can be used to adjust the input in order to bring the output closer to a desired state. In the context of autonomous networks, closed loop refers to the same concept, where the autonomous system continually monitors the output and compares it to the desired output, making necessary adjustments to the input in order to bring the output closer to the desired state. Autonomous systems are often closed loop systems because they need to sense and respond to their environment to achieve their goals. Its important to note that both definitions are similar in the sense that they both describe a feedback mechanism. The difference is that the context of control theory can include various kind of IG1258 Autonomous Networks Glossary v1.0.0  TM Forum 2023. All Rights Reserved. Page 7 of 21 Term Abbreviation Definition  Source systems, while autonomous systems refer to a specific class of systems which are selfgoverning, selfcontrolled and selfsustaining systems. To simplify, closed loop in control theory describes the general concept of a feedback mechanism while in autonomous systems it describes how these systems respond and adapt to the environment to achieve their goals see Autonomous Networks definition. Closed Loop Automation CLA Closed Loop Automation CLA refers to a type of automation in which a systems output is continuously monitored, and any necessary adjustments are made to the systems input in order to maintain the desired output. In other words, it is a system that receives feedback and uses it to adjust its actions. One example of closed loop automation within telecommunications is in the context of network management. A system could monitor the performance of a network, and adjust the configuration of the network in realtime to ensure optimal performance. Intent Intent is the formal specification of all expectations including requirements, goals, and constraints given to a technical system TM Forum, 2022, IG1230 and later on IG1253. A set of operational goals that a network should meet and outcomes that a network is supposed to deliver, defined in a declarative manner without specifying how to achieve or implement them IETF RFC9315, 2020. See Section 4. Intent Terminology for more Intent related terms. SelfX Capability SelfX Self SelfX capabilities are a set of abilities that enable an autonomous network to perform tasks or functions without the need for human intervention. These abilities include selfconfiguration, self diagnosis, selfhealing, selfoptimization, and self protection. Selfconfiguration allows the system to adapt its settings and parameters to changing environments and conditions. Selfdiagnosis allows the system to identify and diagnose problems. Self healing allows the system to recover from problems and return to normal operation. Self optimization allows the system to improve its performance over time. Selfprotection allows the system to defend against cyberattacks and other security threats. Selfoperation SelfX or Self capabilities are the main functions to support above business requirements, which include selfserving self IG1258 Autonomous Networks Glossary v1.0.0  TM Forum 2023. All Rights Reserved. Page 8 of 21 Term Abbreviation Definition  Source planningdesign, selfordering, selfmarketing, self fulfilling selforganizing, selfmanaging, self governing, and selfassuring self monitoringreporting, selfhealing, selfoptimizing, and so on IG1218 AN Business Requirements and Framework. See IG1218 for an analysis of these capabilities in relation to achieving AN vision. TM Forum Intent Ontology TIO The TM Forum Intent Ontology TIO is a standardized ontology for defining and representing the goals, constraints, and requirements of autonomous networks a.k.a intents. It is developed and maintained by the TM Forum, a global industry association that focuses on digital transformation in the telecommunications, media, and entertainment sectors. The TIO provides a highly expressive vocabulary for defining and representing the intents of autonomous systems, and for enabling systems to communicate and coordinate their actions with one another. It is designed to be flexible and extensible, and can be used to represent the intentions of a wide variety of autonomous systems, including networks, resources, services, and applications. The TIO is intended to support the development and deployment of autonomous networks by providing a standardized way to define and represent the requirements of these systems. It is also intended to facilitate the development of tools and techniques for managing and optimizing the performance of autonomous systems, and to support the interoperability of these systems with one another. ZeroX Experience ZeroX Zero Zerotouch, zerotrouble, and zerowait experiences referred to as zeroX or zero for short are design principles that aim to create customer experiences that are effortless and seamless. Zerotouch refers to the idea of designing a system or process that requires minimal or no effort on the part of the customer to use. This could involve automating certain tasks or making it easy for customers to find the information or assistance they need without having to contact customer service. Zerotrouble refers to the idea of designing a system or process that causes minimal or no inconvenience or frustration for the customer. This could involve making it easy for customers to resolve problems or issues that arise, or designing IG1258 Autonomous Networks Glossary v1.0.0  TM Forum 2023. All Rights Reserved. Page 9 of 21 Term Abbreviation Definition  Source the system in a way that reduces the likelihood of problems occurring in the first place. Zerowait refers to the idea of designing a system or process that allows customers to get what they need as quickly as possible, with minimal or no waiting. This could involve optimizing the speed of a website or app, or providing multiple channels through which customers can access information or assistance. These principles are important to design of autonomous systems and services, such as customer portals and operational support systems OSS, with the goal of improving the overall customer experience. IG1258 Autonomous Networks Glossary v1.0.0  TM Forum 2023. All Rights Reserved. Page 10 of 21 2. Autonomy versus Automation Term Formal Definition Source Autonomy The capability to make decisions free from human control. IG1230 TM Forum Autonomous Having autonomy. adjective IG1230 TM Forum Autonomic Acting or occurring involuntarily MeriamWebster Dictionary. Resulting from internal stimuli spontaneous The Free Dictionary Dictionary Autonomicity Autonomicity is the ability of a system to exhibits the four key objective properties of autonomic systems selfconfiguring, selfoptimizing, selfhealing, and self protecting  together with the attribute properties, viz., selfaware, environmentaware, selfmonitoring, and selfadjusting not precise or formal definition. The quality of having autonomic capability adjective. IEEE paper Dictionary Automated made to operate by machines or computers in order to reduce the work done by humans Cambridge dictionary Dictionary Automation the use of machines and computers that can operate without needing human control Dictionary Automatic Able to operate independently of human control IG1230 TM Forum, Cambridge Dictionary Autonomy means to be independent or to be able to control or govern oneself. It is different from automation, which performs a sequence of highly structured pre programmed tasks requiring human oversight and intervention. Intelligent autonomy is where operations have learning and adaptive capabilities that allow responses with minimal human interaction, empowering operators to perform higherlevel optimization tasks. Autonomous is an adjective that describes something that is selfgoverned, self directed, or selfcontrolled. It typically refers to things that are able to function independently, without the need for external guidance or direction. In the context of technology, autonomous systems are those that are able to make their own decisions and take action based on their own internal rules and procedures, rather than being controlled by a human operator or external system. The terms autonomic, autonomy, autonomous and autonomicity have been used in various fields such as language, biology, and philosophy. In general, the term autonomic implies occurring involuntarily, unconsciously, or automatically, or resulting spontaneously from internal causes such as autonomic reflexes. The term autonomous comes from ancient Greek in the sixteenth century and means having its own laws. According to the Oxford English Dictionary, autonomous means the capacity for selfgovernance or having the freedom to act independently, which also means self containment and selfdirection. Autonomicity refers to the state of being autonomic. IG1258 Autonomous Networks Glossary v1.0.0  TM Forum 2023. All Rights Reserved. Page 11 of 21 The term autonomic computing was named after the human bodys autonomic nervous system of the human body which is responsible for the human body perceiving, adapting to, and interacting with the world in order to manage dynamically changing and unpredictable circumstances.Source Kephart, J.O. Chess, D.M. 2003, The vision of autonomic computing, Computer, 36 41 52, CiteSeerX 10.1.1.70.613, doi10.1109MC.2003.1160055 IG1258 Autonomous Networks Glossary v1.0.0  TM Forum 2023. All Rights Reserved. Page 12 of 21 3. General AN Terminology The following table describes other definitions used in the AN project guides. Most of the source definitions are taken from IG1230 Autonomous Networks Technical Architecture. Term Definition  Source AADE Loop The AADE loop is a closed control loop that is used to guide the design and implementation of autonomous systems. AADE stands for Awareness, Analysis, Decision and Execution. The AADE loop is an iterative process that involves the following steps 1. Awareness In this step, the AN system gathers data and information from various sources, such as sensors, databases, and user input. 2. Analysis In this step, the AN system processes and analyzes the data to identify patterns, trends, and relationships. 3. Decision  In this step, the AN system uses the insights gained from the analysis to decide on a solution or course of action. 4. Execution In this step, the AN system executes, tests and evaluates the effectiveness of the solution or course of action, and adjusts it as needed based on the results of the evaluation. The AADE loop is an ongoing process that is repeated as needed to continuously improve the performance of the Autonomous Network AN. It is similar to another AADE Loop Acquire, Analyze, Design, and Evaluate described in the field of AI systems. Note that sometimes the term Perception is used interchangeably with Awareness. Note also that other telecom standards use a similarly defined loop that also have their basis in MAPEK such as CADE Loop from ETSI ZSM, where C is for data Collection rather than Awareness and the MADE Loop from 3GPP where M stands for Monitor rather than Awareness. Agent An agent is an intelligent entity that runs independently, acts by itself, is affected by external environments, continuously detects from the environment to improve its capabilities, and combines inference and knowledge representation. An agent has the characteristics of autonomy, reactivity, adaptability, communication, and selflearning. Agents can be software agents, hardware agents, firmware agents, robotic agents, human agents, and so on. AN Reference Architecture Defines a set of architectural building blocks that form the self management capabilities underpinning autonomous platforms and systems. Identifies the formal architecture of AN and the 9 reference points I13,F13 and K13. IG1251 Autonomous Agent An autonomous agent is an autonomous individual that can adapt to and interact with its environment. see Agent IG1258 Autonomous Networks Glossary v1.0.0  TM Forum 2023. All Rights Reserved. Page 13 of 21 Term Definition  Source Autonomous System A system that is capable of performing the functions of sensing, thinking, and acting in the environment without human intervention. ISO An autonomous system is a system that can operate without human intervention and can make decisions on its own based on its programming and sensory input. IEEE Control Loop A control loop is a type of control system that is used to regulate a process or system by continuously monitoring and adjusting its input in order to maintain a desired output. Control loops are used in a wide range of applications, such as industrial automation, automotive systems, aerospace, and telecommunications. Control loops can also be classified as open loop and closed loop control systems. Open loop control systems do not have any feedback mechanism, while closed loop control systems have a feedback mechanism. Control loops are used to enable autonomous systems to adapt their behavior to respond to changes in user needs, business goals, or environmental conditions. A closed control loop also refers to an autonomous system accomplishing a task without a human taking an active role during task execution  from IG1230 See also Closed Loop. Domain A domain is a subset of a specific management area. See TMF071 ODF Glossary for further definitions of domain concepts Explainability Explainability is the extent to which the internal mechanics of a machine or deep learning system can be explained in human terms IG1230 Sometimes confused with Interpretability Interpretability is about being able to discern the mechanics without necessarily knowing why. Explainability is being able to quite literally explain what is happening. An explanation is the answer to a whyquestion Miller 2017. Humaninthe Loop HITL Humanintheloop HITL refers to a closed control loop where humans are actively involved in the decisionmaking process and are able to intervene and make decisions in real time as needed. This approach is often used in systems where there is a high level of uncertainty or complexity, and where the system needs to be able to adapt and respond to changing conditions in real time. A Humanintheloop HITL example is an air traffic control system, in which human controllers are responsible for making realtime decisions about the movement and routing of aircraft based on input from automated systems. Humanonthe Loop HOTL Humanontheloop HOTL refers to closed control loops where humans are not actively involved in the decisionmaking process but are able to review and override decisions made by the system as needed. This approach is often used in systems where there is a lower level of uncertainty or complexity, and where the system is able to make decisions based on predetermined criteria or rules. A Humanontheloop HOTL example is an automated trading system, in which human traders are able to review and override trades made by the system based on predetermined criteria. In the IG1258 Autonomous Networks Glossary v1.0.0  TM Forum 2023. All Rights Reserved. Page 14 of 21 Term Definition  Source context of autonomous systems, Humanontheloop typically refers to humans playing a more supervisory role, monitoring the decisions and actions taken by the autonomous system and potentially intervening if necessary. Interpretability Interpretability is about the extent to which a cause and effect can be observed within a system IG1230. Interpretable Machine Learning refers to methods and models that make the behavior and predictions of machine learning systems understandable to humans. Book Interpretable Machine Learning, Christoph Molnar, 20221214 Machine Learning ML Machine Learning is a subfield of Artificial Intelligence which focuses on using data and algorithms to imitate the way humans learn. Algorithms learn to make classifications or predictions without being explicitly programmed from training data input to the machine learning model. The model can then be evaluated for accuracy with data that was withheld from the training set. Human programmers can alter the model for more accurate results, for example by changing the initial parameters of the model and re training. Machine Reasoning MR Machine reasoning is the ability of a computer or machine to perform tasks that require logical and analytical thinking, such as problemsolving, decisionmaking, and planning. It involves the use of algorithms and logical rules to process and analyze data, and to draw conclusions or make decisions based on that analysis. Machine reasoning is a key component of artificial intelligence and is used in a wide range of applications, including natural language processing, image and speech recognition, and decision support systems. Arshdeep, et al. A Review on Reasoning Techniques in Artificial Intelligence. International Journal of Computer Applications, vol. 168, no. 9, 2017, p. 34. Management Domain MD Management Domain is a grouping of Managed Entities that partitions the managed objects into logical groups and defines a common administrative domain for managing the objects within it. Paraphrased from TM Forums GB922 SID Root Entities and TR275 Core Networking Resources Business Entities Scope of management that federates together management services, that enables their exposure towards external service consumers and that is delineated by a business, administrative, technological or other boundary ETSI ZSM007 Terminology Management Function MnF Logical entity playing the roles of service consumer andor service producer ETSI ZSM007 Terminology See Intent Management Function. Management Service MnS Set of offered management capabilities ETSI ZSM007 Terminology. Explanation A Management Function provides the management capabilities, Management Service provides the interface to access the management capabilities, and Management Domain provides the environment to manage the network and its services. ExampleTMF921 Intent Management IG1258 Autonomous Networks Glossary v1.0.0  TM Forum 2023. All Rights Reserved. Page 15 of 21 Term Definition  Source API is a Management Service as it provides the interface for intent management capabilities. Platform A platform is a collection of systems that collectively provide a welldefined block of business functionality exposed via open APIs See TMF071 ODF Glossary for further definitions of platform concepts IG1258 Autonomous Networks Glossary v1.0.0  TM Forum 2023. All Rights Reserved. Page 16 of 21 4. AN Level Terminology The following table describes terminology related to the measurement of autonomic capability, such as the AN Level concept. Terms marked with asterisk are defined in the IG1252 Autonomous Network Levels Evaluation Methodology. Term Definition  Source AN Levels AN Levels describe the level of autonomic capability in a given operational workflow or for an autonomous domain L0L5. AN Levels identify contextual autonomous capability IG1230. AN Levels Evaluation Methodology The AN Level Evaluation Methodology is a framework intended to be used by communication service providers and solution providers to evaluate the level of autonomy i.e AN Level of their existing network and systems. The methodology is designed to calculate the achieved AN Level for a given process andor autonomous domain and thus identify areas for further improvement. The methodology may be adapted to suit the specific environment of a service provider, while still remaining valid and applicable. IG1252 Autonomous Networks Level Evaluation Methodology AN Effectiveness Indicators A set of indicators that can be used to evaluate the effect of introducing autonomy capability into telecom systems in terms of business growth, customer experience, and operational efficiency. IG1256 Autonomous Networks Effectiveness Indicators Effectiveness Indicator An effectiveness indicator is a metric that is used to evaluate the performance or effectiveness of a system. It can be used to assess how well the system is achieving its goals or meeting its objectives and can help identify areas for improvement. Effectiveness indicators can be quantitative or qualitative and may be based on a variety of data sources, including observations, measurements, and feedback from users or stakeholders. Some examples of effectiveness indicators might include measures of efficiency selfX capabilities, accuracy, reliability, safety, and usabilityexperience zeroX experiences. Efficiency and experience are the key AN effectiveness indicators. IG1258 Autonomous Networks Glossary v1.0.0  TM Forum 2023. All Rights Reserved. Page 17 of 21 5. Intent Terminology The following table described terminology related to intentdriven interactions and most of the formal definitions are drawn from IG1253 Intent in Autonomous Networks guide. Term Definition  Source Intent Common Model An intent common model specifies domainindependent generic modeling artifacts such as the intent class and expectation class. Intent objects contain a set of expectations, which are distinct and diverse types of requirements allowing to address all relevant concerns IG1253 Intent in Autonomous Networks Intent Expression The expression of an intents expectations. An Intent contains a set of expectations expressed in statements using a particular expression language such as Turtle or JSONLD. This is the basis of the TM Forums Intent Ontology TIO. paraphrased from TM Forum GB922 SID information Model, 2021 Intent Extension Model Intent extension models are vocabularies that are designed to be used in conjunction with the Intent Common Model or extend the Intent Common Model. Intent extension models can add additional capabilities or functionality to an intent common model defined in TIO, or to augment the existing models performance in some way, e.g., add some extra expressiveness. There are several ways that intent extension models can be used. For example, they can be used to add domainspecific knowledge or expertise to a model, to enable the model to handle a wider range of input data or scenarios, or to improve the models performance on a particular task or problem Source TM Forum AN Project Intent Handler The intent handler is the role given to the receiver of an intent object from an intent owner. An intent handler considers the requirements, goals and constraints specified in this intent object when operating the domain and infrastructure it is responsible for. The intent manager in the role of intent handler is responsible to transition the system state to a state that complies with the intents expectations. An intent handler role does not modify or remove intent  only the intent owner can perform these operations. The intent handler is responsible for notifying the intent owner of the intent fulfillment state through intent reports. paraphrased from IG1253C Intent Life Cycle Management and Interface. See Intent Management Function. Intent interface An intent interface is a communication interface or interface layer that is designed to facilitate the exchange of intents between autonomous domains or autonomous networks. It enables systems to communicate their goals, constraints, and requirements to one another, and to negotiate and resolve conflicts or discrepancies between these intents. Source TM Forum AN Project Intentbased interface interface to phrase the consumer requests of what is required in a declarative form ETSI ISG ZSM ZSM007 Glossary IG1258 Autonomous Networks Glossary v1.0.0  TM Forum 2023. All Rights Reserved. Page 18 of 21 Term Definition  Source Examples of intent interfaces includes TMF921 TM Forum, TS28312 3GPP, and M71 DSL MEF 2019. Intent Management Function The Intent Management Function IMF is the management function of an autonomous domain that is responsible for handling intent requests and for translating that intent into specific actions for the domain to perform. An intent management function assumes the role of intent handler by receiving an intent object from an intent owner. An intent management function assumes the role of intent handler by receiving an intent object from an intent owner. An intent management function can assume only one of these roles for a given intent. As such, an individual intent has only one owner and one handler. However, a given intent management function playing the role of intent owner for several intents can at the same time be the intent handler for a different set of intents. Intent Management Function is the TM Forums preferred term for the function for intentdriven management, and it directly references the Management Function term defined externally by ETSI ZSM and 3GPP SA5. Synonyms Intent Handling Function, Intent Management Element , See Intent Handler role. Intent Management Element IME term is used in ETSI ISG ZSM ZSM011. Intent Negotiation Intent negotiation is the process of resolving conflicts or discrepancies between intents of multiple parties or systems. It involves exchange of information and compromise to reach an agreement. In autonomous networks, it is used when multiple domains or agents have conflicting intents and need to find a mutually acceptable solution. Negotiation can involve the use of different negotiation strategies, such as making concessions or proposing alternative solutions to influence the intent owners requirements. Its an iterative process of requestreply interactions before an Intent Handler accepts an Intent Request from an Intent Owner. Intent negotiation is an important aspect of autonomous systems, as it allows systems to adapt and respond to changing circumstances or unexpected challenges, and to coordinate their actions with other systems or agents in order to achieve their goals. Intent Owner The intent owner is the role given to the originator of the intent. It is the entity that creates the intent and formulates all requirements and information within it. The Intent Owner uses this intent to communicate requirements, goals, or constraints to other intent management functions and therefore impact their tasks and behavior. The intent owner is responsible for managing the intents life cycle. Consequently, the intent owner is the only entity and role allowed to modify intent objects. It is also responsible to actively remove the intent if the requirements it contains are no longer required. paraphrased from IG1253C Intent Life Cycle Management and Interface IG1258 Autonomous Networks Glossary v1.0.0  TM Forum 2023. All Rights Reserved. Page 19 of 21 Term Definition  Source Intent Report Intent Reports are exchanged between intent management functions for reporting on the progress status or success of the intent being handled paraphrased from TM Forum GB922 SID information Model, 2021 Intent Request The communication of an intent from an intent owner to an Intent handler Intent Response A report or status from an Intent Handler to an Intent Owner on whether the expectations of an intent were fulfilled. Knowledge Knowledge is information that has been processed in such a way that it is meaningful, relevant, and useful. Russell .L. Ackoff, From Data to Wisdom Ackhoff believed that knowledge was not the same as information, which he defined as raw data that has not yet been processed or organized in a way that makes it meaningful or useful. Instead, knowledge was the result of taking raw data and processing it through a process of understanding, interpretation, and application. Ackoff believed that knowledge was essential for effective decisionmaking and problemsolving, and that it was the foundation of all learning and progress. Knowledge is also defined as analysis of data and information, resulting in an understanding of what the data and information mean by ETSI ISG Experiential Network Intelligence ETSI GS ENI 005. Knowledge Graph A knowledge graph is a model of realworld entities and their relationships, typically represented as a graph, that is used to represent and organize large amounts of structured and unstructured data in a way that is both humanreadable and machinereadable. It is a comprehensive representation of a domain or a set of related domains that contains both data and the relationships between the data elements. It is designed to facilitate the representation, management, and processing of knowledge in a machinereadable format. Bhardwaj, et al. Survey of Knowledge Graph Construction, Maintenance, and Applications. ACM Computing Surveys, vol. 52, no. 5, 2019, p. 1. Model Federation Model federation refers to the process of combining or integrating multiple models into a single, larger model. This can be done for a variety of reasons, such as to enable a model or ontology to handle a wider range of expressions greater expressiveness from multiple domainspecific models. This concept is used in the TM Forums Intent Ontology TIO. The intent modeling proposal recommends using intents from a federation of models. While the intent common model contains general and domainindependent aspects any number of intent expansion and intent information models can be used. They are specific to a domain of intent handling and therefore define what the intent handler of that domain needs to understand and what the intent objects addressing this domain can express. IG1253 Intent in Autonomous Networks IG1258 Autonomous Networks Glossary v1.0.0  TM Forum 2023. All Rights Reserved. Page 20 of 21 Term Definition  Source TMF921 TMF921 is the TM Forums short name for the Intent Management API Suite. It is a standardized interface and data model for exchanging intents  goals, constraints, and requirements  of autonomous systems. It uses the TM Forum Intent Ontology TIO as a formal and unambiguous way of expressing intents. It is a RESTbased API that supports intents in a flexible, domain agnostic manner and allows external ontologies and vocabularies to be federated into the overall intent expression. It supports reporting see Intent Report, and negotiation see Intent Negotiation and is knowledgebased RDF. Source TM Forum AN Project Utility In the context of autonomous systems, utility refers to the value or usefulness of a particular system or component to a user, or to the overall network. It is often used to measure the effectiveness or efficiency of a system or component in achieving a particular goal or meeting a specific need. As such, the AN project refers to utility as an aspect of intent as it describes knowledge about what makes an outcome or situation preferential IG1253 For example, an autonomous system that is designed to optimize energy consumption in a building may have high utility if it can significantly reduce energy costs and improve energy efficiency. Similarly, an autonomous system that is designed to facilitate communication and collaboration among a group of people may have high utility if it can effectively facilitate communication and improve productivity. Utility can be a key factor in determining the success or adoption of an autonomous system, as users will typically be more likely to adopt a system that is perceived as being valuable or useful to them. The utility term is used in IG1253 IG1258 Autonomous Networks Glossary v1.0.0  TM Forum 2023. All Rights Reserved. Page 21 of 21 6. Administrative Appendix 6.1. Document History 6.1.1. Version History Version Number Date Modified Modified by Description of changes 0.1.0 03Jan2023 Kevin McDonnell, Senior Director, Huawei Initial draft document 1.0.0 31Jan2023 Alan Pope Final edits prior to publication 6.1.2. Release History Release Status Date Modified Modified by Description of changes Preproduction 31Jan2023 Alan Pope Initial Release Preproduction 17Mar2023 Adrienne Walcott Updated to Member Evaluated status 6.2. Acknowledgments This document was prepared by the members of the TM Forum AN Project  Kevin McDonnell, Huawei editor  ChengCheng Feng, China Mobile  Jörg Niemöller, Ericsson  Yuval Stein, TEOCO  Dong Sun, Futurewei  Emmanuel A. Otchere. Huawei  Hui Li, Huawei  Guangying Zheng, Huawei  Guoxiang Liu, Huawei  Dharmendra Misra, WIPRO  Aaron BoasmanPatel, TM Forum  Dave Milham, TM Forum  Alan Pope, TM Forum