TM Forum 2021. All Rights Reserved. TM Forum Introductory Guide Study of Telecom Industry Intent MetaModeling Approaches IG1259 Team Approved Date 28May2021 Release Status Production Approval Status TM Forum Approved Version 1.0.0 IPR Mode RAND IG1259 Study of Telecom Industry Intent MetaModeling Approaches v1.0.0  TM Forum 2021. All Rights Reserved. Page 2 of 3 Notice Copyright  TM Forum 2021. All Rights Reserved. This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to others, and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain it or assist in its implementation may be prepared, copied, published, and distributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any kind, provided that the above copyright notice and this section are included on all such copies and derivative works. However, this document itself may not be modified in any way, including by removing the copyright notice or references to TM FORUM, except as needed for the purpose of developing any document or deliverable produced by a TM FORUM Collaboration Project Team in which case the rules applicable to copyrights, as set forth in the TM FORUM IPR Policy, must be followed or as required to translate it into languages other than English. The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and will not be revoked by TM FORUM or its successors or assigns. This document and the information contained herein is provided on an AS IS basis and TM FORUM DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY OWNERSHIP RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. TM FORUM invites any TM FORUM Member or any other party that believes it has patent claims that would necessarily be infringed by implementations of this TM Forum Standards Final Deliverable, to notify the TM FORUM Team Administrator and provide an indication of its willingness to grant patent licenses to such patent claims in a manner consistent with the IPR Mode of the TM FORUM Collaboration Project Team that produced this deliverable. The TM FORUM invites any party to contact the TM FORUM Team Administrator if it is aware of a claim of ownership of any patent claims that would necessarily be infringed by implementations of this TM FORUM Standards Final Deliverable by a patent holder that is not willing to provide a license to such patent claims in a manner consistent with the IPR Mode of the TM FORUM Collaboration Project Team that produced this TM FORUM Standards Final Deliverable. TM FORUM may include such claims on its website but disclaims any obligation to do so. TM FORUM takes no position regarding the validity or scope of any intellectual property or other rights that might be claimed to pertain to the implementation or use of the technology described in this TM FORUM Standards Final Deliverable or the extent to which any license under such rights might or might not be available neither does it represent that it has made any effort to identify any such rights. Information on TM FORUMs procedures with respect to rights in any document or deliverable produced by a TM FORUM Collaboration Project Team can be found on the TM FORUM website. Copies of claims of rights made available for publication and any assurances of licenses to be made available, or the result of an attempt made to obtain a general license or permission for the use of such proprietary rights by implementers or users of this TM FORUM Standards Final Deliverable, can be obtained from the TM FORUM Team Administrator. TM FORUM makes no representation that any information or list of intellectual property rights will at any time be complete, or that any claims in such list are, in fact, Essential Claims. IG1259 Study of Telecom Industry Intent MetaModeling Approaches v1.0.0  TM Forum 2021. All Rights Reserved. Page 3 of 4 Direct inquiries to the TM Forum office 181 New Road, Suite 304 Parsippany, NJ 07054 USA Tel No. 1 862 227 1648 TM Forum Web Page www.tmforum.org IG1259 Study of Telecom Industry Intent MetaModeling Approaches v1.0.0  TM Forum 2021. All Rights Reserved. Page 4 of 5 Table of Contents Notice .................................................................................................................................... 2 Table of Contents ................................................................................................................ 4 List of Figures ........................................................................................................................ 6 Executive Summary ............................................................................................................... 7 1. Intent MetaModeling Approaches ................................................................................. 10 1.1. Semantic Web Standards RDF, RDFS, SKOS, OWL from W3C .................... 10 1.1.1. Context of use and relevance for Intent MetaModeling ........................ 11 1.2. MEF Restricted Intent DSL ............................................................................ 12 1.2.1. Context of use and relevance for Intent MetaModeling ........................ 13 1.3. ETSI ZSM Dynamic Service Descriptor .......................................................... 13 1.3.1. Context of use and relevance for Intent MetaModeling ........................ 14 1.4. ETSI Generic Autonomic Networking Architecture GANA ......................... 14 1.4.1. Context of use and relevance for Intent MetaModeling ........................ 15 1.5. ETSI ENI Intent Representation and Translation .......................................... 16 1.5.1. Context of use and relevance for Intent MetaModeling ........................ 17 1.6. 3GPP Intent Modeling Approach .................................................................. 17 1.6.1. Context of use and relevance for Intent MetaModeling ........................ 18 1.7. IETF Intent Classification Methodology ........................................................ 18 1.7.1. Context of use and relevance for Intent MetaModeling ........................ 18 1.8. IETF NEMO Network Intent Modeling Language .......................................... 18 1.8.1. Context of use and relevance for Intent MetaModeling ........................ 19 1.9. ONAP IntentBased Network Proof of Concept ............................................ 19 1.9.1. Context of use and relevance for Intent MetaModeling ........................ 20 1.10. ORAN ........................................................................................................... 20 1.10.1. Context of use and relevance for Intent MetaModeling ....................... 20 1.11. Abbreviations ................................................................................................ 20 1.12. Definitions ..................................................................................................... 21 1.13. References .................................................................................................... 21 2. Administrative Appendix ................................................................................................. 24 2.1. Document History ......................................................................................... 24 2.1.1. Version History ......................................................................................... 24 2.1.2. Release History ......................................................................................... 24 IG1259 Study of Telecom Industry Intent MetaModeling Approaches v1.0.0  TM Forum 2021. All Rights Reserved. Page 5 of 6 2.2. Acknowledgments ........................................................................................ 24 2.2.1. Guide Lead  Author ................................................................................ 24 2.2.2. Main Contributors .................................................................................... 24 2.2.3. Additional Inputs ...................................................................................... 24 IG1259 Study of Telecom Industry Intent MetaModeling Approaches v1.0.0  TM Forum 2021. All Rights Reserved. Page 6 of 7 List of Figures Figure 1. Semantic Web Stack Source Idehen, Kingsley Uyi. 2017. Semantic Web Layer Cake Tweak, Explained. OpenLink Software, via Medium, July 14 ................................................... 10 IG1259 Study of Telecom Industry Intent MetaModeling Approaches v1.0.0  TM Forum 2021. All Rights Reserved. Page 7 of 8 Executive Summary Several standards developing organizations SDO are actively working on the topic of Autonomous Networks and the associated concept of intentdriven management. One of the key building blocks of intentdriven management is the intent metamodel which helps by providing an abstract representation of the schema and rules of the intent model, irrespective of the management domain or specific management layer, and enables the extension of such a model wherever necessary, depending on the context of usage. This is critical because the metamodel of the intent is one of the architectural considerations that can influence the functional blocks required for the overall autonomous network system to derive the semantic meaning and context of the intent as well as helps to map intent to internal actions without ambiguities or conflicts. This study explores the approaches followed by different standardization organizations for intent meta modeling and highlights the readiness, relevance of use as a reference methodology, and the context of usage that identifies what aspect of the SDO artifact can be leveraged. It should be noted that this study does not compare the SDO approaches directly, because the objective, context, and the maturity of intentdriven management specification development in the various SDOs considered are different. Hence, it is advised that this document is referred to as informative content and for identifying the best practices. This study helps CSPs to match the SDO intent modeling capability with the business requirement, applicability across wider use cases or spanning multiple domains. Additionally, depending on the transformational stage of the CSP towards Autonomous Networks, an appropriate set of capabilities can be planned and incorporated based on the overall scope and development roadmap documented by the SDOs. The following table summarizes the intent metamodeling approaches of different standard organizations and key characteristics. Characteristics SDO Approach Metamodel approach Intent expression language DSL or Schema specification format Context of use What aspect of the SDO artifact can be used for intent meta modeling Relevance Relative maturity to use as a standard intent metamodeling approach Semantic Web Techniques RDFRDFSOWL based Ontology SKOS, RDF, RDFS, OWL or Turtle Simple  TaxonomyThesauri based Advanced  OntologyKnowledge graph based High , but can consider evolutionary and intermediate steps MEF DSL Restricted DSL for specific domainUse Case SDWAN Restricted natural language, Restricted DSL Start simple with a specific domain DSL and specialized DSL processors Medium , DSL limited to a specific use case IG1259 Study of Telecom Industry Intent MetaModeling Approaches v1.0.0  TM Forum 2021. All Rights Reserved. Page 8 of 9 Characteristics ETSI ZSM Dynamic Service Descriptor DSD with object behavior modeled as policy Not available , but directions indicate a DSL Views on DSD is worth referring to Low , no reference model that can be readily used for implementations ETSI GANA Ontology based highlevel business language that can be translated to domain specific Service and Network Profile Reference PoCs for specific domains available with recommendation on deriving Service and Network profiles Wireless Access and BBF Architecture specific Use casePoC that mention how profiles are derived from GANA knowledge plane Medium , currently limited use cases which are domain specific. Knowledge Plane level information gathered in specific use casesPoCs worth referring to. ETSI ENI Intent policy expressed as external DSL Not available , but directions indicate a restricted DSL Based on Unified Policy Information model Based on external DSL Medium, Require extra effort to come up with an external DSL 3GPP Intent expression as a composition of intent object and intent action Not Available A simple logical representation of Intent expression available Extending the Intent Expression consisting of Intent Object and Intent Actions along with respective properties Medium , basic reference model , require additional effort for domain UC specific DSL IETF Intent Classification None specified , but Intent classification methodology helps to build a conceptual model Not in scope Intent classification methodology to build a conceptual model of scope and entities High , Build conceptual view IETF NEMO Restricted network DSL NEMO yang model Extend the network intent model to express network specific intents Medium, for a specific domain with restricted language ONAP Intent expression as a composition of intent object Refers to 3GPP Intent Expression Experimental use of Intent framework reference implementation with PoC DSL representation , translation, decision Medium, Require use case specific instrumentation and schema definition IG1259 Study of Telecom Industry Intent MetaModeling Approaches v1.0.0  TM Forum 2021. All Rights Reserved. Page 9 of 10 Characteristics and intent action making and execution mechanisms ORAN RAN Intent representing a high level business goal Not in scope Not ready for use as O RAN does not have a welldefined scope for RAN intent Low , no reference model or approach IG1259 Study of Telecom Industry Intent MetaModeling Approaches v1.0.0  TM Forum 2021. All Rights Reserved. Page 10 of 11 1. Intent MetaModeling Approaches TMF Specification IG 1244A link TBD gives a formal representation of the intent metamodel and its relationship with the domainspecific information model. There are many techniques used across the industry verticals and SDOs for expressing intent metamodel or knowledge organization schemes in a machinereadable format. In this section some of these approaches are examined and also the context under which such approaches are applied is analyzed. 1.1. Semantic Web Standards RDF, RDFS, SKOS, OWL from W3C Figure 1. Semantic Web Stack Source Idehen, Kingsley Uyi. 2017. Semantic Web Layer Cake Tweak, Explained. OpenLink Software, via Medium, July 14 These standards are a set of instruments developed by W3C for modeling semantic knowledge or linked data that enable largescale integration of, reasoning on, the data on the web that helps to realize semantic web vision of Web of linked data. Some important modeling specifications in the semantic web stack that may be relevant for intent modeling are described below. Resource Description Framework RDF A standard format for exchangeinteroperability of data. RDF is available in various serialization formats such as RDFXML XML based syntax, Turtle, JSONLD, RDFJSON, etc. In simple words, RDF is used to represent simple relationships between concepts subject, object, predicate. IG1259 Study of Telecom Industry Intent MetaModeling Approaches v1.0.0  TM Forum 2021. All Rights Reserved. Page 11 of 12 Simple Knowledge Organization Scheme SKOS is a data model representation to express controlled vocabulary such as thesauri, classification schemes, and taxonomies that can be exchanged between computer applications and published in a machinereadable format on the web. SKOS is primarily used for indexing, information retrieval or for navigation purposes. SKOS represents Concepts not Classes that can be instantiated unlike in RDFS and OWL identified with URI and grouped into a Concept Scheme. SKOS is represented using the web standard such as XML and RDF Resource Description Format. Resource Descriptor Framework Schema RDFS A generalpurpose language used for describing the properties and classes of the RDF resources subject, object, predicate. RDFS serves as a base for ontologies. RDFS gives RDF more expressive vocabulary through classes, subclasses, and properties. Web Ontology Language OWL OWL semantic web language used to build ontologies or schema on the top of RDF datasets, describes relationships between classes and uses logic to make deductions, express constraints in relations. It can also construct new classes based on existing information. OWL is available in three levels of complexity  Lite, Description Language DL, and Full. OWL is based on RDF and RDFS. SKOS is an Ontology created in OWL for representing controlled vocabulary, thesauri, and taxonomies. To summarize, the above standard formats help to represent knowledge in a machine readable format with different levels of complexity and richness of semantic information it can capture. For example, a domain level concept can be represented in a basic format like SKOS with RDF vocabulary for subject, predicate, object representation, a set of concepts Concept schemes, that share characteristics and relationships can be represented using RDFS or OWL based classes, properties or individuals depending on the richness of vocabulary intended to represent the knowledge RDFS vs OWL. 1.1.1. Context of use and relevance for Intent MetaModeling As stated above semantic web modeling languages are primarily used for interlinking data on the web across domains and derive semantic information based on the metadata and the relationships that can be used for various use cases such as web search, digital library, financial services, life sciences, etc. Leveraging the Semantic web modeling techniques defined above, intent can be modeled as simply as a hierarchical taxonomy to a more complex ontologybased knowledge graph depending on the expressive power and the reasoning complexity that can be accommodated. The following are some approaches that may be relevant for the intent meta model.  TaxonomyThesauri based approach Knowledge organization approach Terms or concepts vocabulary of terms organized into hierarchical or associative manner. Less complex intent vocabulary can be represented in a SKOS format. TaxonomyThesauri is typically used to represent concept labels or search the relationship between concepts for display or for web search that can be used for lookup or translation of intent through entity categorization, key phrase extraction, etc. This may act as a base for building the ontology model.  Ontology and Knowledge graphbased approach Knowledge representation approach Ontology is used primarily for knowledge modeling focused on complex semantics of concepts and the relations among concepts, their properties, attributes, values, constraints, and rules. Since intent is a semantic representation of goals that express requirements and constraints, ontology based Metamodeling can be one of the choices, which means ontology can be used as a base contract for defining intent, its IG1259 Study of Telecom Industry Intent MetaModeling Approaches v1.0.0  TM Forum 2021. All Rights Reserved. Page 12 of 13 scope, and boundaries. Ontology based metamodeling also enables the extension of the intent schema and reusereference entities from existing domainspecific information models to create a more expressive and formal intent language. A knowledge graph is a collection of interlinked entities, and the ontologies form the base schema of the graph. Refer to the discussion here on difference or relationship between the knowledge graph and ontologies. Additionally, the Enterprise Knowledge white paper explains the relation between Ontology and Knowledge graph with an example For an intentdriven system, an intent model with populated values instances of ontology concepts or facts can be represented as an element semantic knowledge of the knowledge graph. Knowledge graphs can be an enabler for an intentdriven system especially when a AIbased algorithms are trained with the graph to derive contextualized knowledge or facts that can be used for further downstream action b a time series indexed inventory of intents can be maintained for audit or system recovery. However, the temporality of the knowledge graphs needs to be noted, which may influence the static or transient nature and associated implementation requirements to support such characteristics. 1.2. MEF Restricted Intent DSL MEF Intentbased orchestration project W71 focuses on developing common, multivendor, interoperable, intentbased policies to support use cases, services, and standards. There are two work items highlighted as part of the W71 specification work  a Intentbased policies that are defined as statements that express the goals of the policy in an implementationvendordeviceindependent manner b system architecture that supports closedloop, blackbox intentengine At the time of this writing MEF, W71 is still under active development, however, the contributions related to MEF intent DSL is worth referring here for the context of this paper. The MEF DSL contribution link, not a formal specification focuses on a restricted intent DSL for SDWAN service catering to the Business User. A revised scope of the MEF 71 work item also indicate the development of intent policy for SDWAN through a separate project W85 which includes Business user DSL, Application user DSL and compiler for both. The intent DSL is expected to have the following characteristics  captures the concepts for a particular domain or interface for example SDWAN, MEF LSO Cantata , for a particular type of user e.g., Business user, Application Developer user, etc.  Specify conceptsgoals through grammar or use of programming language to program solutions.  A LexiconDictionary is used to disambiguate the intent input or derive semantic meaning from the intent input. The MEF contribution referred here gives an exemplary DSL idea for a Skype for Business service intent. For the MEF 71 intent engine scope there are initial thoughts shared through contributions that indicate the presence of intent compiler that leverages Lexicon to disambiguate the input and a parsing logic that recognizes named entities as well as derives semantic context. The intent parsing logic recognizes named entities in the intent and maps it to different classes of interest such as People, Locations, Organizations, and Products, etc. It further extracts semantic meaning through the mapping to classes, attributes and relationships. This kind of IG1259 Study of Telecom Industry Intent MetaModeling Approaches v1.0.0  TM Forum 2021. All Rights Reserved. Page 13 of 14 parsing is quite similar to the natural language processing followed in modern applications. The compiled intent expression is further mapped to the DSL for a specific user or specific domain. In the exemplar SDWAN Service intent DSL format suggested in the MEF community, the DSL schema consists of the keywords to denote the startstop of entity definition blocks, restricted domainspecific keywords such as SDWAN Edges, Connectivity, etc., a place holder for user input or variables, and comment blocks. 1.2.1. Context of use and relevance for Intent MetaModeling MEF restricted DSL is simple and straightforward in its representation by defining a set of keywords for a specific domain and catering to a specific set of users that can be translated or mapped to systemlevel policies. However, this simplicity needs to be examined with the requirement for reusability, interoperability, and applicability across wider scenarios to avoid the proliferation of multiple variationsversions of such restricted DSLs as well as specialized DSLs to meet specific needs. Additionally, the exemplar formats suggest leverage on a Lexicon of keywords, and management of such a lexicon may be an overhead unless it is handled by a centralized authority globally. MEF 71 initial contributions also indicate an evolution from restricted DSL to an advanced ontology and lexiconbased intent expression as well as the incorporation of domainspecific information model along with the ontology. In this case, an intent compiler is used to compose the semantic context by referring to the intent ontology and the input received from the consumer in restricted natural language format. 1.3. ETSI ZSM Dynamic Service Descriptor ETSI ZSM 005 Means of automation gives reference to the intentbased modeling concept as one of the principles for the means of automation. The specification also refers to intelligent orchestration as a replacement for classic orchestration which can generate prescriptions at runtime to figure out the appropriate system state taking into consideration the current context. ETSI ZSM 011 Intent driven autonomous networks General Aspects which is still in the early draft stage has a placeholder for intent metamodel which is a possible technologyagnostic metamodel that can be used for intent specification within the ZSM framework. Additionally, the draft also has a placeholder for documenting the domainspecific information models that can be used to specify the different intents to be used between the different entities. At a highlevel ZSM 005 differentiates between policies and intent  policies as concrete functions to take decisions and intent as higherlevel goals and benefits, further policies translate intent into concrete network setup. It is also mentioned that intentbased modeling is a synonym for goalbased policy refinement, for example, CFS with certain quality or behavior can be seen as a goal. The key difference with traditional orchestration is the presence of intentgraph  CFS object along with the behavior policy for composition relationship at runtime. The intelligent engine follows the policies to build CFS  RFS  Resource objects. ZSM 005 further suggests the model description needs to capture the entire semantics of the model, which in other words is called the reason behind the model that is used by the intelligent orchestrator to create prescriptions at runtime. While the format of such a model is not mentioned in this specification, new terminology is coined to capture the Service model and the behavior aspect which may help the intelligent orchestrator to derive the runtime prescriptions  this is referred to as Dynamic Service Descriptor DSD. Further, it is noted that IG1259 Study of Telecom Industry Intent MetaModeling Approaches v1.0.0  TM Forum 2021. All Rights Reserved. Page 14 of 15 the behavior aspect of the service model is captured as policies. So essentially the DSD would compose the Service objects, relationship graph, and behavior policies. At runtime the state transition of the service objects may be governed by the behavior policies and the relationship graph may influence the creation of service hierarchies. To summarize, according to ZSM 005, DSD forms the basis for intent wherein a graph of service objects is formed, and each service object is requested by another service object and such request is made on a service object. 1.3.1. Context of use and relevance for Intent MetaModeling ZSM 005 and ZSM 011 tend to give a mixed view on the way intent is modeled. Both specifications do not indicate the intent metamodel format or how this can be leveraged for expressing different types of intent across domains. While ZSM005 gives a new descriptor concept DSD which includes packaging of behaviorsemantic aspect of the model to be used by the orchestrator as well as the relationship, it still looks to be lowlevel detail that cannot be composed without specialized operational knowledge especially the behavior aspect. ZSM011 is in the early draft stage and currently does not indicate a specific intent metamodeling approach. 1.4. ETSI Generic Autonomic Networking Architecture GANA Intent Representation and MetaModeling approach The ETSI GANA Framework ETSI TS 103 1952 being a truly generic reference model for Autonomic Networking, Cognitive Networking and SelfManagement of Networks and Services, accommodates any metamodeling languages for Intents and does not restrict to a specific language for metamodeling of Intents. For the simple reason that it gets to be decided at the time of GANA instantiation onto a particular reference implementation oriented network architecture and its associated management and control architecture, the frameworks for use in metamodeling of Intents in the resultant GANA autonomics enabled reference network architecture and its management and control architecture. The value of ETSI GANA is in its ubiquitous pervasive applicability to a wide range of ICT network architecture scenarios and cases the current architectures and future network architectures as well, being a generic blueprint based framework for implementing autonomics, cognition and selfmanagement capabilities for networks and services. For example, a GANA instantiation onto a Broadband Forum BBF network architecture scenario and its associated management and control architecture creates a GANA autonomicityenabled BBF architecture scenario see for example ETSI TR 103 473 on GANA onto BBF architecture scenarios, one of several GANA instantiation cases. Another example of a GANA instantiation is the GANA instantiation onto the 3GPP Backhaul and EPC Core Network ETSI TR 103 404. Other example GANA instantiations include ETSI TR 103 495, ETSI TR 626. What it means is that in all these various GANA instantiations any metamodeling framework for Intents supported by the target architecture upon which GANA Functional Blocks and Reference Points have been instantiated e.g., in the BBF architecture case or 3GPP Case, etc. should be applied. IG1259 Study of Telecom Industry Intent MetaModeling Approaches v1.0.0  TM Forum 2021. All Rights Reserved. Page 15 of 16 1.4.1. Context of use and relevance for Intent MetaModeling Therefore, what the ETSI GANA Framework addresses rather, when it comes to Intents and Intent Based Networking IBN are the following aspects 1. Types of Intents The ETSI TR 103 1953 describes various types of Intents and where they can be used in an Autonomic Network AN, namely 1 Vertical Downstream Intent, 2 Vertical Upstream Intent, and 3 Horizontal Intent Cross Domains 2. A Framework by which Intents are to be handled in GANA is described in ETSI TS 103 195 2 and complementarily in ETSI 5G PoC White Paper No.4 httpsintwiki.etsi.orgimagesETSI_5G_PoC_White_Paper_No_4_v3.1.pdf 3. How Intents and other Inputs for use in Network Governance via the Governance Interface of the Autonomic Network AN, such as High Level Business Goals for the Network, Service Profiles and SLAs, Network Service DefinitionsGraphs, Service ChainsGraphs, and ProfilesPolicies, are all used to generate a composite Governance Input called Network Profile that encapsulates all such items as structured and packaged inputs to the Autonomic Network AN. To quote ETSI TS 103 1952 High Level Business Goals for the Network, Service Profiles and SLAs, Network Service DefinitionsGraphs, Application Intents and ProfilesPolicies, are all used to generate a Network Profile consisting of information such as technical goalsobjectives of the network, network service profiles, network service policies, application intents and profiles, configuration data for network elements NEs, and other types of information and data that could be necessary to create or generate and store into the inventory in form of configuration files or model descriptions e.g. YANG models.With the aid of a GMBTS Translation and Network Profile Generator Tool the human operator generates Low Level Config Policies and ConfigData or Models consisting of Policies, Goals, Intents, Service Definitions, and ConfigurationData encapsulated by a Network Profile Skeleton that may be generated in a format like XML, and any additional ConfigFiles or Models e.g. YANG models required. The Knowledge Plane DEs algorithms shall operate in such a way that they are governed by the goals and policies or are aware of such items encapsulated by the Network Profile i.e., the DEs take into consideration the items in the Network Profile. The Network Profile also contains Node Profiles for individual NEs GANA nodes that may be expressed in a format such as XML should be complemented with Node Config Files in some formats accepted by NEs configuration agents.  4. Roles that Ontologies could play at the Network Governance Interface of an AN The ETSI 5G PoC White Paper No.4  httpsintwiki.etsi.orgimagesETSI_5G_PoC_White_Paper_No_4_v3.1.pdf discusses the possibility to use a business level language that could help the Network Operator to express what is needed from the autonomic network, with consideration that such a business language shall be semanticsoriented and may be modeled by the use of an ontology to add semantics and enable machine reasoning on the goals. The White Paper further mentions the need for translation of highlevel ontologybased business language to Service Profile and Network Profile. These profiles are distributed for policy execution and enforcement at Network elements to network functions. 5. Integration of Automated Management and Autonomic Management as two domains, and definition of Network Governance Interface through which Intents and other Inputs can be used to govern the Autonomic Network AN httpswww.etsi.orgimagesfilesETSIWhitePapersetsi_wp16_gana_Ed1_20161011.pdf IG1259 Study of Telecom Industry Intent MetaModeling Approaches v1.0.0  TM Forum 2021. All Rights Reserved. Page 16 of 17 1.5. ETSI ENI Intent Representation and Translation ETSI ENI System Architecture specification ENI 005 gives reference to three types of policy  declarative policy, imperative policy, and intent policy. These policies are defined as follows  Declarative policy a type of policy that uses statements from formal logic to describe a set of computations that need to be done without defining how to execute those computations.  Imperative policy a type of policy that uses statements to explicitly change the state of a set of targeted objects.  Intent Policy a type of policy that uses statements from a restricted natural language e.g., an external DSL to express the goals of the policy but does not specify how to accomplish those goals. Further, the ENI System Architecture specification introduces the Unified Policy Information Model which is based on MEF Policy Model that serves as a common language that enables concepts used by different policy authors to be mapped to equivalent concepts in other levels. As per this model, all types of policies are abstracted and represented in terms of policy statements and each statement is represented in terms of policy clauses. ENI gives multiple language choices for writing different types of policies  Controlled Language a restricted version of a language that has been engineered to meet a particular purpose. Example  a restricted form of natural languages such as English which uses a subset of grammar and vocabulary.  DomainSpecific Language a small humanunderstandable language that uses a higher level of abstraction to communicate and configure software systems for a particular application domain.  General Purpose Language a programming language used by professional programmers and developers that can address a wide variety of problems and domains. As per the ENI specification, the difference between DSL and GPL is that DSL is typically designed to be used by the nonprogrammers that are experts in the domain which DSL is addressing. Additionally, DSL is classified as internal vs external wherein the internal DSL does not require a specialized compilerinterpreter, whereas external DSL requires the development of own grammar that may require specialized compilersinterpreters. ENI architecture specification recommends the use of external DSL for representing intent policies for enabling nonprogramming users to defineuse the policies. Additionally, it is recommended to define standard intent grammar specifications for intent policies. It also cautions against using controlled natural language as it requires significant effort to develop and maintain. ETSI ENI Specification ENI 008 Intent Aware Network Automaticity explains in detail the process of intent translation using the intent translation functional block as part of the Policy Management. The translation is carried out because the intent policy rule for one constituency may be quite different in structure and content compared to other constituencies. The intent translation functional block is expected to perform lexical analysis, syntactic analysis, semantic analysis, and augmentation, either parsing or compiling and, optionally, interpretation of the Intent Policy. Intent translator derives meaning out of the intent and converts it into the desired format executed internally by the ENI system or generates a recommendation to be used by assisted systems. IG1259 Study of Telecom Industry Intent MetaModeling Approaches v1.0.0  TM Forum 2021. All Rights Reserved. Page 17 of 18 At the time of this writing, there is a new work item ENI 013  Intent Policy Model Gap Analysis being initiated in the ETSI ENI workstream which is expected to evaluate different methods for intent policy modeling, mostly those driven by other SDOs and also expected to provide a recommendation on way forward. 1.5.1. Context of use and relevance for Intent MetaModeling ETSI ENI specifications give a comprehensive view on intent management based on the intent policy, covering the variants, translation mechanism, how it may be consumed by the ENI and assisted systems, etc. There are also directions on representing the intent policy as an extension of the MEF Policy Model, however, there is a lack of clarity currently on the intent DSL or the metamodel based on which intent DSL will be developed. But from the details, it looks like the direction is to use a restricted DSL similar to the approach followed in MEF. As stated above, ENI also cautions against using a controlled natural language instead of restricted DSL due to the overhead in developing and maintaining such language. The recommendations in ENI013 work in progress may provide more clarity on how an intent metamodel can be used as per the directions in the ENI specification. 1.6. 3GPP Intent Modeling Approach 3GPP TR 28.812 specification Study on scenarios for Intent driven management services for mobile networks describes intentdriven management concepts, scenarios, and recommendations for the way forward on standardization. One of the concepts covered in this specification is an intent expression which is a piece of information that includes the objective and related details. The specification also details the responsibility of the intentdriven Management Service Provider to translate the intent expression information to services, network operations, and related resource requirements. In TR 28.812 a high level representation of Intent Expression is given as a combination of IntentDrivenAction and IntentDrivenObject. Here IntentDrivenObject gives the management object information according to intent requirement, whereas IntentDrivenAction provides abstract and simplified network and operation information according to intent requirements. The IntentDrivenObject is composed of intentDrivenObjectName and set of IntentDrivenObjectProperties, similarly IntentDrivenAction may consist of the IntentDrivenActionName and set of IntentDrivenActionProperties. Further to the intent expression concept the 3GPP specification details the intent translation as well as dimensions of the intentdriven framework. One of the dimensions being mentioned is the Language of intent, which can be  Native machine language expressed in native machine languages such as computer code or binary code  Imperative expressed in simple statements mainly describing the How part than the What  Declarative expressed without defining the control flow  Natural expressed in human language Furthermore, the specification also differentiates Policydriven management and intentdriven management. Here, an intent is identified as the state where we want the entity to be and policy as the necessary step to get to this state. IG1259 Study of Telecom Industry Intent MetaModeling Approaches v1.0.0  TM Forum 2021. All Rights Reserved. Page 18 of 19 1.6.1. Context of use and relevance for Intent MetaModeling While the 3GPP 28.812 specification does not give detailed intent metamodeling guidelines, the representation of intent expression as a combination of intent object and intent action gives some direction expected for 3GPP specific scenarios. However, expression of intent as the desired state intent object and abstract action on an object intent action gives a notion that the consumer is aware of the object state and actions on an object, i.e., this is more aligned to a restricted DSL that can be applied for specific management scenario or domain. Unlike the ETSI ZSM and ENI specifications where different flavors of policy are expressed one of those being intent policy, in the 3GPP specification, the difference between intentdriven and policydriven management is identified. 3GPP specification also indicates policydriven management as an evolutionary step towards intentdriven management. The specification does not indicate how the action  objective in the intent expression may map to the policy to drive the management entity to the desired state. In 3GPP specification 28.312 Intent driven management services for mobile networks which is still in the early stage initiated during the Release 16 time frame, a placeholder section for intent categories based on management scenario types is given. This section is expected to give more details on the intent expression however, this is not available yet. 1.7. IETF Intent Classification Methodology IETF draft on Intent Classification draftirtfnmrgibnintentclassification discusses the network intent, methods to classify and encode intent, and intent taxonomy among other topics. Additionally, RFC 7575 Autonomic Networking Definitions and Design Goals defines intent as an abstract highlevel policy used to operate a network. This IETF draft on classification also identifies two key aspects to classify intents  solutions and actors. i.e., the intent types vary based on the specific solution that it caters to  for example, Carrier Networks, DC Networks, Enterprise Networks similarly, the intent types vary based on the actor as the actor requires different intent types based on use case and context. The IETF draft further gives an intent classification methodology to create new intent classification from scratch and intent taxonomy covering the intent solutions, intent user types, intent types, intent scopes, network scopes, abstractions, and lifecycle that can be used along with intent classification methodology for various solutions. 1.7.1. Context of use and relevance for Intent MetaModeling While the IETF draft draftirtfnmrgibnintentclassification currently does not suggest any metamodeling for intent, it gives clarity on the methodology to be used for classification of intent as well as helps to identify the key elements that constitute intent and considerations while preparing the intent for specific scenarios. The IETF draft highlights the need for different types of intents catering to different use cases and contexts depending on the solution or actor that it is being used with or other criteria being considered in the intent classification methodology. This may help in setting a base for DSL or models of intent. 1.8. IETF NEMO Network Intent Modeling Language IETF draft draftxiasdnrgnemolanguage NEMO NEtwork MOdeling Language describes a domainspecific language based on an abstraction of network models and accommodates various operational patterns. IETF draft draftzhounetmodintentnemo describes a basic IG1259 Study of Telecom Industry Intent MetaModeling Approaches v1.0.0  TM Forum 2021. All Rights Reserved. Page 19 of 20 yang model for the network intent expressed through NEMO language. The yang model consists of basic building blocks for expressing network intent such as node, link, flow, policy, and intent batch which can be extended based on the use case requirement. A detailed explanation of the model construct is beyond the scope of this document. The NEMO language is built around a set of basic network models abstracting the network demand and these demands can be for network resources or network behavior. The network is composed of three basic entities  Customer Facing Node, Connection, and Service Flow. To accommodate the network behavior expected by the enduser NEMO provides two types of constructs  information acquisition and control operation. The information acquisition construct provides two methods to get information about the network  Query and notification. Similarly, to control the network NEMO supports operations that can be associated with any entity such as Node or Service Flow operation. 1.8.1. Context of use and relevance for Intent MetaModeling As noted above NEMO language has limited scope and is primarily used for an abstract representation of network demand. The language accommodates both the object and behavior part of the intent that requires a specialized intent engine to translate to the low level constructs as well as to build the endtoend network context based on the input. A reference yang model for the NEMO language is available in draft draftzhounetmodintent nemo which can be used as a metamodel. The model also allows the extension of basic building blocks to accommodate userspecific objects or behaviors. As NEMO has restricted constructs and limited scope it can only be treated as a restricted intent DSL for a specific layer and may not be relevant for wider intent metamodel requirements. 1.9. ONAP IntentBased Network Proof of Concept ONAP introduced the intentbased network management capability in the Guilin Release with the implementation of the IBN proof of concept reference, which is roughly based on the 3GPP 28.812 intentdriven management system reference architecture. The ONAP Guilin release IBN PoC showcased a vertical industry use case for smart warehouse management. The PoC introduces an intent framework which takes highlevel business goal as input, converts it to necessary network configurations and applies the network changes via network automation andor network orchestration. The framework also monitors the status of the network under control, to verify that the intent is being met and takes corrective actions when desired intent is not met. The intent framework consists of four functional blocks.  intent management Provides a northbound interface for consumers, including intent schema and intent management  intent translation Converts higherlevel business goal to networklevel configuration or orchestration request  intent decision and execution Decides which candidate intent solution shall be executed in response to a request by a managed entity and executes the translated intent solution by sending an appropriate request to a managed entity or to another intent framework.  intent database Stores intent schema, intent instance, and intent knowledge The ONAP IBN proof of concept uses the 3GPP recommended intent structuring format which at a high level consists of IntentDrivenAction and IntentDrivenObject. Refer to the 3GPP Intent Modeling Approach above for more details about these entities. IG1259 Study of Telecom Industry Intent MetaModeling Approaches v1.0.0  TM Forum 2021. All Rights Reserved. Page 20 of 21 1.9.1. Context of use and relevance for Intent MetaModeling While the ONAP IBN proof of concept is experimental as of the Guilin Release, it gives a reference implementation roughly based on an SDO recommended approach. The current scope and applicability are limited for the particular scenario being considered. However, the approach being followed indicates a use case specific intent DSL to be defined and used for intent translation, decision, and execution. The translation mechanism is also based on simple lexical and grammatical analysis without any immediate scope for knowledgebased semantic translation. ONAP IBN project has defined an enhanced set of capabilities as road map items for upcoming releases which includes general intent modeling as well as enhancement of data model for specific use cases. 1.10. ORAN ORAN WG2 Specification A1 interface General aspects and principles defines RAN intent and different types of policy such as imperative, declarative and intent policy. The RAN intent is defined as Expression of highlevel operational or business goals to be achieved by the radio access network, allowing an operator to specify the desired SLAs that RAN needs to fulfill for all or a class of users in a given area over a period of time. The definition of different types of policies is based on ETSI GR ENI 004. While the RAN intent definition is currently out of scope it is expected that the NonReal Time RAN Infrastructure Controller which is part of the Service Management and Orchestration component of the ORAN Architecture, is responsible for receiving the RAN Intent and then translate to an internal policy such as over A1 interface. But until the scope of the RAN intent and the functional capabilities are clearly defined it will be too early to speculate. 1.10.1. Context of use and relevance for Intent MetaModeling As explained above ORAN currently does not provide any intent metamodel specification for RAN intent. Only the need for the RAN intent at a system level is expressed. So, it is assumed that the realization of such a RAN intent is expected to be implementation specific. From the definition of RAN intent, it is assumed that the representation of the intent is more of a Domain specific language limited to RAN domain which expresses the goal in terms of SLA and RAN needs. 1.11. Abbreviations Term Expansion SDO Standard Definition Organization CFS CustomerFacing Service RFS ResourceFacing Service CSP Communication Service Provider DSL Domain Specific Language ENI ETSI Experiential Networked Intelligence IG1259 Study of Telecom Industry Intent MetaModeling Approaches v1.0.0  TM Forum 2021. All Rights Reserved. Page 21 of 22 Term Expansion ZSM ETSI Zerotouch Service and network Management RAN Radio Access Network SDWAN Software Defined Wide Area Network GANA ETSI Generic Autonomic Network Architecture 1.12. Definitions MetaModeling  analysis, construction and development of the frames, rules, constraints, models and theories applicable and useful for modeling a predefined class of problems more details here Ontology  As per Wikipedia ontology encompasses a representation, formal naming and definition of the categories, properties and relations between the concepts, data and entities that substantiate one, many, or all domains of discourse. W3C considers vocabulary and ontologies as synonyms, wherein ontology as a more formal and complex collection of terms and vocabulary as used in very loose sense. Vocabularies define concepts and relationships also referred to as terms used to describe and represent an area of concern. In simple terms ontology is a way of showing the properties of a subject area and how they are related, by defining a set of concepts and categories that represent the subject. Knowledge Graph a collection of interlinked descriptions of entities  realworld objects and events, or abstract concepts more details here . As per Wikipedia, knowledge graph is a knowledge base that uses a graphstructured data model or topology to integrate data. Semantic web  ExtensionEvolution of World wide web through standards set by W3C more details here 1.13. References Reference Link W3C Resource Description FrameworkRDF Wiki httpswww.w3.orgRDF W3C Simple Knowledge Organization System SKOS httpswww.w3.org2001swwikiSKOS W3C Web Ontology Language OWL httpswww.w3.org2001swwikiOWL W3C RDF Schema RDFS httpswww.w3.orgwikiRDFS IG1259 Study of Telecom Industry Intent MetaModeling Approaches v1.0.0  TM Forum 2021. All Rights Reserved. Page 22 of 23 Reference Link MEF Intent Based Orchestration Project httpswiki.mef.netpagesviewpage.actionpageId63181121 ETSI ZSM Means of Automation ZSM005 httpswww.etsi.orgdeliveretsi_grZSM001_09900501.01.01_6 0gr_ZSM005v010101p.pdf ETSI 5G PoC White Paper No.4 httpsintwiki.etsi.orgimagesETSI_5G_PoC_White_Paper_No_4_v 3.1.pdf ETIS Generic Autonomic Network Architecture Part 2 An Architectural Reference Model for Autonomic Networking, Cognitive Networking and Self ManagementETSI TS 103 1952 httpswww.etsi.orgdeliveretsi_ts103100_1031991031950201. 01.01_60ts_10319502v010101p.pdf ETSI GANA White Paper No16  GANA  Generic Autonomic Networking Architecture httpswww.etsi.orgimagesfilesETSIWhitePapersetsi_wp16_gan a_Ed1_20161011.pdf ETSI Experiential Networked Intelligence ENI System Architecture httpswww.etsi.orgdeliveretsi_gsENI001_09900501.01.01_6 0gs_ENI005v010101p.pdf ETSI Experiential Networked Intelligence ENI InTent Aware Network Autonomicity ITANA httpswww.etsi.orgdeliveretsi_grENI001_09900802.01.01_6 0gr_ENI008v020101p.pdf 3GPP TR 28.812 specification Study on scenarios for Intent driven management services for mobile networks httpsftp.3gpp.orgSpecsarchive28_series28.81228812 100.zip 3GPP TS 28.312 Intent driven management services for mobile networks httpswww.3gpp.orgftpSpecsarchive28_series28.31228312 040.zip IG1259 Study of Telecom Industry Intent MetaModeling Approaches v1.0.0  TM Forum 2021. All Rights Reserved. Page 23 of 24 Reference Link IETF draft Intent Classification httpsdatatracker.ietf.orgdocdraftirtfnmrgibnintent classification IETF RFC 7575 Autonomic Networking Definitions and Design Goals httpsdatatracker.ietf.orgdochtmlrfc7575 IETF Draft NEMO NEtwork MOdeling Language httpsdatatracker.ietf.orgdochtmldraftxiasdnrgnemo language04 IETF Draft YANG Data Models for Intentbased NEtwork MOdel httpsdatatracker.ietf.orgdochtmldraftzhounetmodintent nemo00 ONAP Intent Based Network management Proof of concept httpswiki.onap.orgdisplayDWUseCaseRealizationCall3AF eb82C2021preview2F930017162F930112582F20210208 _IntentFrameworkandIntentModeling_UCRealization.pdf ORAN WG2 Specification A1 interface General aspects and principles httpsoranalliance.atlassian.netwikidownloadattachments1829 76589ORAN.WG2.A1GAPv02.02.docxapiv2 IG1259 Study of Telecom Industry Intent MetaModeling Approaches v1.0.0  TM Forum 2021. All Rights Reserved. Page 24 of 25 2. Administrative Appendix 2.1. Document History 2.1.1. Version History Version Number Date Modified Modified by Description of changes 1.0.0 28May2021 Alan Pope Initial Release 2.1.2. Release History Release Status Date Modified Modified by Description of changes Pre production 28May2021 Alan Pope Final edits prior to publication Production 26Jul2021 Adrienne Walcott Updated to reflect TM Forum Approved Status 2.2. Acknowledgments 2.2.1. Guide Lead  Author Member Title Company Manoj Nair Senior Solution Architect Netcracker Technology 2.2.2. Main Contributors Member Title Company Kevin McDonnell Senior Director, Intelligent Automation Huawei Dave Milham Chief Architect TM Forum Tayeb Ben Meriem Senior Standardization Manager OSS Orange 2.2.3. Additional Inputs Member Title Company Lester Thomas Chief IT Systems Architect Vodafone Group Ankur Goyal Lead Consultant Infosys IG1259 Study of Telecom Industry Intent MetaModeling Approaches v1.0.0  TM Forum 2021. All Rights Reserved. Page 25 of 25 Member Title Company Emmanuel A. Otchere Chief Technical ExpertVP, Standards  Industry Development Huawei Min He Chief Architect Futurewei