TM Forum 2021. All Rights Reserved. TM Forum Best Practice China Mobiles Practice on Autonomous Networks IG1218B Team Approved Date 30Jul2021 Release Status Production Approval Status TM Forum Approved Version 1.1.0 IPR Mode RAND IG1218B China Mobiles Practice on Autonomous Networks v1.1.0  TM Forum 2021. All Rights Reserved. Page 2 of 23 Notice Copyright  TM Forum 2021. All Rights Reserved. This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to others, and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain it or assist in its implementation may be prepared, copied, published, and distributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any kind, provided that the above copyright notice and this section are included on all such copies and derivative works. However, this document itself may not be modified in any way, including by removing the copyright notice or references to TM FORUM, except as needed for the purpose of developing any document or deliverable produced by a TM FORUM Collaboration Project Team in which case the rules applicable to copyrights, as set forth in the TM FORUM IPR Policy, must be followed or as required to translate it into languages other than English. The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and will not be revoked by TM FORUM or its successors or assigns. This document and the information contained herein is provided on an AS IS basis and TM FORUM DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY OWNERSHIP RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. TM FORUM invites any TM FORUM Member or any other party that believes it has patent claims that would necessarily be infringed by implementations of this TM Forum Standards Final Deliverable, to notify the TM FORUM Team Administrator and provide an indication of its willingness to grant patent licenses to such patent claims in a manner consistent with the IPR Mode of the TM FORUM Collaboration Project Team that produced this deliverable. The TM FORUM invites any party to contact the TM FORUM Team Administrator if it is aware of a claim of ownership of any patent claims that would necessarily be infringed by implementations of this TM FORUM Standards Final Deliverable by a patent holder that is not willing to provide a license to such patent claims in a manner consistent with the IPR Mode of the TM FORUM Collaboration Project Team that produced this TM FORUM Standards Final Deliverable. TM FORUM may include such claims on its website but disclaims any obligation to do so. TM FORUM takes no position regarding the validity or scope of any intellectual property or other rights that might be claimed to pertain to the implementation or use of the technology described in this TM FORUM Standards Final Deliverable or the extent to which any license under such rights might or might not be available neither does it represent that it has made any effort to identify any such rights. Information on TM FORUMs procedures with respect to rights in any document or deliverable produced by a TM FORUM Collaboration Project Team can be found on the TM FORUM website. Copies of claims of rights made available for publication and any assurances of licenses to be made available, or the result of an attempt made to obtain a general license or permission for the use of such proprietary rights by implementers or users of this TM FORUM Standards Final Deliverable, can be obtained from the TM FORUM Team Administrator. TM FORUM makes no representation that any information or list of intellectual property rights will at any time be complete, or that any claims in such list are, in fact, Essential Claims. IG1218B China Mobiles Practice on Autonomous Networks v1.1.0  TM Forum 2021. All Rights Reserved. Page 3 of 23 Direct inquiries to the TM Forum office 181 New Road, Suite 304 Parsippany, NJ 07054 USA Tel No. 1 862 227 1648 TM Forum Web Page www.tmforum.org IG1218B China Mobiles Practice on Autonomous Networks v1.1.0  TM Forum 2021. All Rights Reserved. Page 4 of 23 Table of Contents Notice .................................................................................................................................... 2 Table of Contents ................................................................................................................ 4 List of Figures ........................................................................................................................ 5 Executive Summary ............................................................................................................... 6 1. Background and Motivation ......................................................................................... 7 1.1. Background ..................................................................................................... 7 1.2. Motivation ...................................................................................................... 7 2. Strategy and Methodology ........................................................................................... 9 2.1. Overall Target ................................................................................................. 9 2.2. Approach and Framework .............................................................................. 9 2.2.1. Layered Target Framework ........................................................................ 9 2.2.2. Evaluation Driven Evolution Loop ............................................................ 11 2.3. 2.3 Methodology .......................................................................................... 12 2.3.1. Objects for Scenariobased Evaluation .................................................... 12 2.3.2. Capability Granularity Level Characteristics ............................................. 12 3. Innovative Practice ..................................................................................................... 13 3.1. Shortcoming Identification ........................................................................... 13 3.2. Inner Capability Enhancement in Network Elements ................................... 13 3.3. Platform Foundation for Network Management System ............................. 13 3.4. AI Capability Enhancement ........................................................................... 15 3.5. Typical Application Cases .............................................................................. 16 4. Industrial CoCreation ................................................................................................. 18 5. Future Outlook ............................................................................................................ 20 6. Abbreviations and Acronyms ...................................................................................... 21 7. References .................................................................................................................. 22 8. Administrative............................................................................................................. 23 8.1. Version History ............................................................................................. 23 8.2. Release History ............................................................................................. 23 8.3. Acknowledgements ...................................................................................... 23 8.3.1. Guide Lead  Author ................................................................................ 23 IG1218B China Mobiles Practice on Autonomous Networks v1.1.0  TM Forum 2021. All Rights Reserved. Page 5 of 23 List of Figures Figure 1. China Mobiles Autonomous Network Framework ..................................................... 10 Figure 2. China Mobiles autonomous network evolution loop ................................................. 11 Figure 3. Chinas Mobiles 25N blueprint for network management system ..................... 14 Figure 4. China Mobiles AI application system of intelligent OM .......................................... 15 IG1218B China Mobiles Practice on Autonomous Networks v1.1.0  TM Forum 2021. All Rights Reserved. Page 6 of 23 Executive Summary The digital economy will continue to grow at a high speed, showing a development trend of digital industrialization, industrial digitization, digital governance, and datas value realization . China Mobile has been responding to the times, shouldering the main force of building strength in cyberspace, enabling a digital China and a smart society, by establishing the main development path of promoting the digital and intelligent transformation and achieving high quality development to accelerate the digitalization and intelligentization of network operation and maintenance domain, and strive to build an integrated, highly automated and intelligent system of cloud and network, giving full play to the core advantages of operators and consolidating the foundation of digitalization and intelligentization of all walks of life. Upholding and practicing the concepts of autonomous network, China Mobile sets an overall goal for the companys network to reach level 4 by 2025. The digitalization and intelligentization of network operation and maintenance is accelerated to empower the support of CHBN services, improve customer satisfaction, enhance network quality, increase maintenance efficiency, reduce the operating cost and optimize management work. With the goal of supporting endtoend services, capabilities are established at different levels. With the starting point of capability evaluation, iterative optimization is carried out in a closeloop manner. On the one hand, driven by network management system planning, capacity of operation and maintenance automation is constructed through innovative pilots of intelligent operation and maintenance and their largescale adoption, accelerating the AI injection and enabling. On the other hand, overall plans are made for issuing technical specifications of automatic operation and maintenance support functions of network equipment, promoting the capability improvement in conjunction with the network management system. Aiming to guide more industry partners to build consensus, share experiences, and jointly innovate to achieve the common goal of network autonomy, this article summarizes China Mobiles thinking and practices from the perspective of motivation and background, strategy and methodology, quantitative evaluation, etc. Combined with the companys followup planning, it gives cooperation suggestions and future prospects of industrial development. IG1218B China Mobiles Practice on Autonomous Networks v1.1.0  TM Forum 2021. All Rights Reserved. Page 7 of 23 1. Background and Motivation 1.1. Background According to MIIT1 and CAICT2, Chinas digital economy added value is supposed to reach 65 trillion yuan by 2025, in which the income of information service industry will increase to 20.4 trillion yuan. The digital economy will continue to grow at a high speed, showing a development trend of digital industrialization, industrial digitization, digital governance and datas value realization. Advanced ICT technologies such as 5G, AI, cloudedge computing are getting more mature, integrated and innovative, empowering various verticals to deepen digitalization. Enterprise customers focus on ubiquitous intelligent connection  cloudbased data intelligence, and are committed to implementing an endtoend overall program to promote the development of digital economy in more fields and at a deeper level. In this context, China Mobile has taken the initiative to build strength in cyberspace, enabling a digital China and a smart society, and established the main path of development of  promoting the digitalization and intelligentization and achieving highquality development  1, via five key actions create innovative digital intelligent products, consolidate digital intelligent network, build a digital intelligent center, construct a digital intelligent organization and forge a digital intelligent ecosystem. Based on the communication network, driven by information technology and data elements, a new growth model is to be established, giving full play to the shoulder role of operators in promoting the innovation of information technology and the deep integration of information technology with economy, society and peoples livelihood. With a complex network featured by worlds largest customer scale, rapid development of ICT business and coexistence of 245G technologies, the digitalization and intelligentization is a MUST in China Mobiles network operation and maintenance domain. China Mobile is committed to build an integrated, highly automated and intelligent system of cloud and network, which consolidates the foundation of digitalization and intelligentization of all walks of life. 1 Ministry of Industry and Information Technology 2 China Academy of Information and Communication Technology 1.2. Motivation The digitalization and intelligentization of network operation and maintenance is the deep integration of automation and intelligence technology with the communication networks hardware, software, system, process, etc., which promotes quality and efficiency improvement, leads network technology reforms, and enables agile business innovation. The driving force mainly comes from the three following aspects Rapid Expansion of Business As the individual user market gets saturated, the digitalization of vertical industries and enterprise consumers lives have become highly expected potential growth points. Diversified demands are put on network services with more stringent standards in terms of connectivity, bandwidth, delay, reliability, etc. IG1218B China Mobiles Practice on Autonomous Networks v1.1.0  TM Forum 2021. All Rights Reserved. Page 8 of 23 Technological Evolution for Network Infrastructure virtualization and network element softwarization not only achieve new features such as flexible resource allocation and dynamic scheduling, but also bring more equipment combinations from different manufacturers and management levels into the disaggregated network. The complexity of network collaboration increases sharply, which further aggravates the difficulty of network operation and maintenance management. Optimization for Operation Management As one of the worlds largest telecom operators in terms of both network scale and users, China Mobiles network is characterized by rich domains, multiple generations, numerous levels and large region. The process coordination, information screening and automatic execution of existing OM work such as service subscription, fault monitoring and quality optimization need to be continuously improved in efficiency. IG1218B China Mobiles Practice on Autonomous Networks v1.1.0  TM Forum 2021. All Rights Reserved. Page 9 of 23 2. Strategy and Methodology 2.1. Overall Target TM Forums autonomous network2 aims to provide vertical industries and consumers with innovative network and ICT services featuring zerowait, zerocontact, zerofault and full autonomy, build a selfserved, selfhealing, and selfoptimized communication network, which provides a clear target architecture and implementation path for digitalization and intelligentization of network operation and maintenance3. Based on the TM Forum framework, the network autonomy is classified into 6 levels Level 0  Manual management, Level 1  Assisted management, Level 2  Partial autonomous network, Level 3  Conditional autonomous network, Level 4  High autonomous network, Level 5  Full autonomous network. With reference to the concept of TM Forums autonomous network, China Mobile has made plans for digitalization and intelligentization of network operation and maintenance, strengthened the capacity building of automation and intelligence, and set an overall goal for companys autonomous network to reach Level 4 by 2025. 2.2. Approach and Framework In order to realize the overall goal by 2025, China Mobile has made allround thinking, applicability exploration and phased practices. Faced with complex production networks and diversified autonomous capabilities, the method of divide and conquer is adopted to realize the spiral rise of network autonomous capability construction. 2.2.1. Layered Target Framework With reference to the hierarchical architecture of TM Forum network 4 and combined with production practices, China Mobile put forward an internal practice framework of 4 layers and 3 closed loops, as shown in Figure 1. IG1218B China Mobiles Practice on Autonomous Networks v1.1.0  TM Forum 2021. All Rights Reserved. Page 10 of 23 Figure 1. China Mobiles Autonomous Network Framework As is shown in Figure 1, the 4 layers refer to  Network Element Management provides the builtin autonomous OM capabilities of network elements.  Network Management provides networkoriented autonomous OM capabilities within a single technical domain.  Service Management provides crossdomain autonomous OM capabilities toward network and services.  Business Management provides customeroriented autonomous service management and customer touchpoints uniformly. The 3 closed loops include  Resource Closed Loop resource management for single domain to achieve single domain autonomy.  Service Closed Loop serviceoriented, crossdomain endtoend management to achieve crossdomain collaboration.  Customer Closed Loop customer and business management including customer information, sales, billing, customer service, etc. IG1218B China Mobiles Practice on Autonomous Networks v1.1.0  TM Forum 2021. All Rights Reserved. Page 11 of 23 Taking it as a reference, targeting at quality improvement, efficiency increase and cost reduction, China Mobile builds systematic capabilities at different levels to realize network autonomy. 2.2.2. Evaluation Driven Evolution Loop In view of multiple differences among provincial companies in customer scale, business type, OM process, and supplier partnership, a unified evaluation system is developed, and a comprehensive quantitative evaluation of autonomous capability is conducted in all 31 provincial companies, triggering the evaluation driven evolution loop to iteratively accumulating capability in three steps, as shown in Figure 2. Figure 2. China Mobiles autonomous network evolution loop Level Evaluation and Shortcoming Identification Based on the general principles of TMF evaluation framework, more detailed guidelines are proposed to evaluate scenariobased autonomy capability for OM process. After grading all 31 provincial companies capability, common problems and shortcoming differences could be identified, targeted measures and deployment plans could be developed. System Construction and Coordinated Planning Unified plans are made for all provincial companies to strengthen and accelerate the renewal of new network management systems. The function and technology specifications for network equipment in all domains are to be further detailed on the basis of general function specifications, guiding network equipment suppliers to achieve upgrading for equipment autonomy. Application Pilot and Scale Adoption Provincial companies are guided to actively introduce advanced automation and intelligent technologies, in collaboration with network equipment suppliers and network management system integrators. Considering that there are differences in automation levels among provincial companies, pilots are carried out in selected provincial companies at early stages, and then be promoted nationwide if the feasibility were verified. IG1218B China Mobiles Practice on Autonomous Networks v1.1.0  TM Forum 2021. All Rights Reserved. Page 12 of 23 2.3. 2.3 Methodology 2.3.1. Objects for Scenariobased Evaluation Combined with the actual OM management organization system of production network, the model of evaluation object framework for autonomous network is formed on three dimensions of OM scenario, Network domain and Service category, which includes specifically Key OM Scenarios 6 firstclass scenarios, including planning, development, maintenance, optimization, operation and resource management. 11 secondclass core scenarios, including network planning, design and deployment, monitoring and troubleshooting, patrol inspection, testing, network analysis, network optimization, service subscription, network complaints, resource change management and resource data management. Key Network Domains Core network, Radio network, IP network, Transport network, and Telecom cloud. Key Service Categories Individual services including mobile Internet, voice, SMS home services including home broadband Internet, IPTV business services such as 5G industrial network, APN, IMS, transport VPN, Internet VPN, transport VPN, cloud VPN, MPLS VPN. In use of the methodology mentioned above, combined with the characteristics of each network domain and service category, the secondclass OM scenarios are further decomposed into a group of OM core capability set as scenariobased evaluation objects. 2.3.2. Capability Granularity Level Characteristics Based on the guiding principles of TM Forum network grading framework5, combined with the actual needs of network OM management evaluation, from the perspective of guiding IT system implementation, the following requirements for different levels are defined  Level 0 offline manual implementation.  Level 1 manual implementation, online recording.  Level 2 automatic implementation ruled by statically programmed rules.  Level 3 automatic implementation ruled by dynamically programmable policies.  Level 4 automatic implementation ruled by AI assisted if needed knowledge, featuring with continuous learning and rapid evolution.  Level 5 automatic implementation capable of selfevolution and adapting to changes. Applying those leveldifferentiated features to core capability sets, the detailed classification rules of scenariobased autonomy for each core capability set are obtained. A quantitative evaluation model is proposed based on aggregation principles such as weighted average, which can help the company obtain the quantitative score of the network OM autonomous level in each scenario, each process, each domain and crossdomain area as required from the finestgrained evaluation results, providing powerful support for making allround evaluations, comprehensively analyzing the level differences in multiple dimensions and accurately identifying common shortcomings. IG1218B China Mobiles Practice on Autonomous Networks v1.1.0  TM Forum 2021. All Rights Reserved. Page 13 of 23 3. Innovative Practice 3.1. Shortcoming Identification All provincial companies are required to conduct network OM capability evaluation through selfassessment in single domain, horizontal comparison of multiple domains, etc., so as to identify the shortcomings. At present, the overall level of China Mobiles production network for selected services, networks and operation domains is rated as L1L2, and some provincial companies as above L2. Shortcomings in different degrees are identified in network equipment from various aspects including integrated deployment, potential risk prediction, fault isolation and failover, optimized simulation, sensing test, data reporting granularity and realtimeness. Network management system needs to be further strengthened on automatic and intelligent support capabilities in terms of endtoend registration of home and enterprise services, cloudnetwork coordinative scheduling, endtoend quality perception and analysis of services, and onsite manual operation support. 3.2. Inner Capability Enhancement in Network Elements Network elements inherent support for automation and intelligence of operation and maintenance lays the foundation to achieve autonomous network. The required automatic OM capabilities of network element management layer for each domain include 1Equipment Monitoring enhances the automatic data sensing capability with multiple dimension, realtime and finegrain, which includes traffic flow, resource capacity, topology, operation events, equipment energy consumption, etc. 2Resource Allocation speeds up the construction of dynamic routing calculation, service configuration activation and other capabilities in transport network, IP network, etc. 3Service Guarantee provides automatic diagnosis, isolation, migration and recovery of network faults. 4Service Optimization ameliorates capabilities in optimizing resource utilization, business quality and energy efficiency. 5Service Test provides connectivity testing and service testing capabilities on network element level, module level and link level in core network, transport network, etc. 3.3. Platform Foundation for Network Management System In terms of network management and service management, China Mobile proposed a 25N blueprint for network management system, guiding systematically the capacity building of network management system, as shown in Figure 3. On the one hand, 2 core platforms and 5 capability centers are built to pull through the OM process, complete the automation configuration activation, consolidate the data base, strengthen the endtoend services guarantee, and achieve the reuse and sharing of capabilities. On the other hand, application of IG1218B China Mobiles Practice on Autonomous Networks v1.1.0  TM Forum 2021. All Rights Reserved. Page 14 of 23 emerging IT technologies will be further strengthened such as artificial intelligence, big data, cloud nativity, etc. Figure 3. Chinas Mobiles 25N blueprint for network management system 12 sharing platforms Shared Data Platform It provides unified data collection, storage and sharing in network management domain. General Capability Platform It provides serviceindependent general platform capabilities and network security management capabilities for all kinds of systems in network management domain. 25 OM capability centers Service Orchestration Center It achieves design and orchestration capability of highlevel end toend process for service registration, coordinates the scheduling of crossdomain sub processes, and provides a unified interface docking business operation system. Resource Management Center It realizes network resource data management, resource access management, resource scheduling management, endtoend resource topology view and other applications for all domains, and provides various resource services. Fault Management Center It implements centralized network monitoring and provides open network monitoring capability. Quality Management Center It makes endtoend analysis of network and service quality, as well as analysis on various topics. OM Management Center It provides centralized dispatching management of operation and maintenance, as well as automatic dispatching and other services. IG1218B China Mobiles Practice on Autonomous Networks v1.1.0  TM Forum 2021. All Rights Reserved. Page 15 of 23 3 OM systems for N Domains It achieves automatic OM and automatic configuration activation of domain specific and supplier specific management capabilities. 3.4. AI Capability Enhancement China Mobile builds a fourlayer relationship model of application, algorithm, data and computational power as shown in Figure 4 around the four types of intelligent OM scenarios including intelligent perception, intelligent diagnosis, intelligent prediction and intelligent control, actively carries out the innovation pilot and achievement promotion of AI technology in image recognition, big data analysis, complex computing and other OM domains. Figure 4. China Mobiles AI application system of intelligent OM Application Layer Intelligent perception analyzes and assesses data and identifies network status through AI technology. Intelligent diagnosis takes input from faults, complaints and poor quality, in order to diagnose network problems. Intelligent Prediction is to estimate business and capacity trends and predict network changes. Intelligent control is to work out network optimization strategies and adjust network parameters. Algorithm Layer AI algorithms commonly used in the intelligent OM domain, including voice recognition, image processing, anomaly detection, relationship analysis, causal inference, time series prediction, optimization analysis and other categories. Data Layer PBlevel structured and unstructured network data generated by frontend services, network management systems and network equipment. IG1218B China Mobiles Practice on Autonomous Networks v1.1.0  TM Forum 2021. All Rights Reserved. Page 16 of 23 Computational Power Layer deploy mixed computational power clusters to support large scale heterogeneous parallel computing. 3.5. Typical Application Cases China Mobile adopts the RD mode of selfdevelopmentcooperation, in conjunction with partners, actively launches innovative pilots for the whole process of network OM planning, development, maintenance, optimization and operation 6. Every pilot application gets promoted promptly once it gets mature. Typical application cases include Intelligent Acceptance of 5G Base Stations Traditional completion and acceptance of base stations requires multiple manual inspection and long acceptance periods, highly dependent on human experiences, adding difficulties to locate problems timely and accurately. In the peak period of 5G construction, the efficiency and quality of base station acceptance work makes great difference. China Mobile has innovatively applied a new intelligent acceptance mode requiring noboarding, which is able to complete automatically 18 target detections with 95 accuracy by means of identifying various pictures of wireless equipment installation process, equipment connection and computer room environment and facilities. Applying in Zhejiang existing network, it has reduced single station acceptance time from 7 days to 1 hour. Automatic Opening of Cloudnetwork Dedicated Line Traditional opening of cloudnetwork dedicated lines relies on manual configuration of OM personnel, involving multiple steps including business analysis, resource exploration, instruction writing, verification and testing, etc. It usually takes several days to make an endtoend opening. Based on SRTE technology and time series prediction algorithm, China Mobile establishes the automatic opening capability by adopting containerized and microservice architecture, sensing realtime network status, proactively predicting business trends, dynamically calculating the optimal path and automatically configuring network equipment. With its wide adoption on the whole network, the whole process from frontend business acceptance to backend cloud private network configuration and distribution is completed with zero contact, and the opening time is shortened to minutes, which significantly improves the satisfaction of enterprise customers. Automatic Handling of 5G Faults With the rapid growth of 5G network scale, average daily network alarms from provincial companies exceed 10 million, involving multiple network domains, long collaborative chain and complex dependency relationship. China Mobile has built a fault management framework with comprehensive realtime sensing, alarm correlation and compression, automatic diagnosis anomaly, crossdomain accurate positioning and intelligent decisionmaking, enabling a series of capabilities including the all visual network quality monitoring capability, the largecapacity alarm processing capability of 2000 alarms per second, the alarm compression and dispatch capability of 10001, the automatic diagnosis capability of 300 types of fault scenarios, and the network configuration capability of 800 flexible combinations. With its applying in the existing network in Zhejiang, main faults can be cleared within 30 minutes, with average processing efficiency remarkably increased by 40, which effectively guarantees the quality of 5G network and provides customers with the ultimate experience. Intelligent Diagnosis of 5G Voice Quality At early stages of 5G development, 5G voice services generally fall back to 4G, with signaling switches frequently between 45G. The problem of poor 5G voice quality involves more than 10 types of network equipment, 50 more data interfaces and is quiet difficult to accurately diagnose and quickly dealt with. China Mobile has developed the ability of intelligent quality difference location, horizontally pulls through multi dimensional index data such as KPI of network performance and KQI of user perception, IG1218B China Mobiles Practice on Autonomous Networks v1.1.0  TM Forum 2021. All Rights Reserved. Page 17 of 23 deeply extracts the quality characteristics of 5G voice service, proactively warns the potential risks of 5G voice quality degradation based on time series prediction model, and accurately locates the root cause of quality difference based on FPgrowth correlation analysis model. Applying in Beijings existing network, it helped reducing 5G voice fault location time to minutes, increased the processing efficiency by 60. Intelligent Diagnosis of Network Quality for Home Broadband Services Existing problems such as insensitive perception, inaccurate positioning and untimely processing, could greatly affect the user experience of home broadband services. China Mobile has developed an end toend quality analysis application for it, using Xgboost algorithm to analyze the various code stream of videos and games traffic in real time, finely identify traffic types, and perceive the quality problem of different traffic according to the preset differential threshold. For the link diagnosed with poor quality, spectral clustering algorithm is used to analyze the performance index such as optical current, power, bit error rate and so on, quickly locating the endtoend network problems. After being applied in Henan existing network, 450,000 cases of poor quality problems, 8,000 poor quality lines and 150 poor quality content sources were actively identified. The diagnostic rate reached 90. The network problems were dealt with ahead of customer complaints, which effectively improved the satisfaction of home broadband services. 5G Intelligent Power Saving Energy consumption per bit of 5G is lower than that of 4G, but largely improved throughput has arisen an overall energy consumption, bringing huge added cost to network operation. Based on expert experience, the traditional energysaving method of base stations sets a fixed night energysaving time window for idle base stations. However, facing numerous base stations, each with various wireless environment and service load, together with their highly coupled relations, it is impossible to achieve refined energysaving by one single set of static energysaving strategies. China Mobile developed 45G intelligent energysaving technology of one scheme for one station, which used time series prediction algorithm to actively predict the service trends according to the historical service volume and the dynamic features of user distribution, calculate the optimal configuration scheme in real time, and automatically control the energysaving parameters of the cell. After being applied in Jiangsu existing network, energy consumption saving of base station is further improved from 8 to 11, which effectively saves the network operation cost. Intelligent Air Conditioner in Data Center Energy saving of large data center is an important work for China Mobile to realize lowcarbon innovation, reduce costs and increase efficiency. Usually, highcost hardware optimization schemes are adopted such as upgrading air conditioning equipment and optimizing refrigeration architecture. In terms of software it is difficult to find out the software optimization scheme quickly by manual statistical analysis method due to more than 1,000 parameter combinations in IDC air conditioning system. China Mobile developed the Smart Cooling IDC airconditioning system, which adopts multiindex timespace series prediction and deep neural network algorithm, actively predicts the subsequent operating conditions and airconditioning energy consumption according to the historical data of outdoor temperature and humidity, cooling demand and airconditioning energy consumption, automatically finds the best airconditioning parameter scheme, and dynamically optimizes the operating parameters in real time. After applying the system in Anhui existing network, energy consumption of data center refrigeration is reduced by 8, and each data center saves 140,000 kWh per month, which tremendously reduces carbon emissions. IG1218B China Mobiles Practice on Autonomous Networks v1.1.0  TM Forum 2021. All Rights Reserved. Page 18 of 23 4. Industrial CoCreation Although the practice of China Mobiles autonomous network construction has entered the stage of systematic deployment, there is still a long way to go for the L4 goal. Only by joint efforts can we lead the industry to achieve common goals. Hence these 4 cooperative initiatives are proposed Reach Consensus on Target Architecture To achieve the highlevel goal of autonomous network, it is necessary to lead the coordinative evolution of network and network management system under the guidance of a unified architecture and on the basis of active practice and verification. A sound management system needs to be established for digital knowledge assets such as business rules, expert experience, AI models, etc. All parties in the industry are guided to establish a crossorganization cooperation platform for the whole process of building the network automation capability system 7, promote common advancement of network equipment and network management system, and implement in all respects of network planning, development, maintenance, optimization and operation. It is proposed that all industry standards organizations will strengthen communication and cooperation in terms of the target framework, unified evaluation model and technical path of autonomous network, promote mutual recognition of achievements, enhance complementarity, jointly draw a common blueprint and build a common set of standards. Enhance Business Driving Forces The ultimate goal of autonomous network construction is to support the growth of operators business. During this process, we must always strengthen the evolution of network and network management automation capability driven by business, and advance in an orderly manner around the four major markets, namely, C individual Customer, H Home customer, B Businessenterprise customer and N New customer, so as to realize the coordinated development. In practice, China Mobile needs to cooperate closely with network equipment suppliers and network management system integrators, achieving steady improvement of various business support capabilities of CHBN, promoting value management with highquality and differentiated guarantee, empowering business development and improving OM efficiency. Pool Ecological Strength Continuously improving the level of network autonomy involves the gradual transfer of network OM responsibilities from people to network equipment and OM systems, and expansion of the basis for system decisionmaking from interpretable experience to artificial intelligence algorithm models that are difficult to understand intuitively, which is not a simple technical problem. As the pioneer of autonomous network building, China Mobile is eager to join hands with industrial organizations, network equipment suppliers, network management system integrators, research institutes and other internal and external innovative RD forces to jointly explore the deep integration, theoretical innovation and engineering realization of advanced technologies including communication network and AICDE1, and realize the goal of digitalization and intelligentization of network operation and maintenance. It is proposed that each partner of industry, education, academia and application, based on their respective expert fields, will enhance the crossdomain horizontal collaboration in multiple fields, push for the crossdomain horizontal and crosslevel vertical collaboration, and make joint efforts to create an open innovation platform that is business leading, application driven, technology empowered and brings winwin for all parties. IG1218B China Mobiles Practice on Autonomous Networks v1.1.0  TM Forum 2021. All Rights Reserved. Page 19 of 23 Share Industrial Growth Predicted by TracticaOvum, total investment on AI software, hardware and services from global telecom industry will reach 36.7 billion USD by 2025, and network IT operation monitoring and management will become the largest AI application in telecom industry, accounting for 61 of AI expenditure in telecom industry. As a telecom enterprise with the largest number of customers, the largest network scale, the most complex network architecture and the most abundant network services in the world, China Mobile wishes to give full play to companys advantages to promote the implementation of autonomous network, realize the scale benefits of cost reduction, efficiency improvement and quality improvement for its own good, set an exceptional example for the digitalization and intelligentization of the communication industry, and provide practical support for the standard system of the autonomous network. IG1218B China Mobiles Practice on Autonomous Networks v1.1.0  TM Forum 2021. All Rights Reserved. Page 20 of 23 5. Future Outlook In 2019, China Mobile began to promote collaboration of related standards organizations, open source communities, and industrial forums. In May 2019, China Mobile jointly issued the TM Forum Autonomous Network White Paper29. One year later, serving as Chairman of the Board of Directors of Linux Network Foundation, it initiated an industrial research toward demands, strategies and applications of intelligent network OM. Since February 2021, China Mobile has been actively contributing to the autonomous network standard development in TM Forum in terms of level evaluation of autonomous networks10 and crossorganization standard collaboration7 . Looking forward, China Mobile will continue to exert its influence in international standards, open source community and industrial cooperation, as well as promote industrial partners including industrial organizations, network equipment suppliers, network management system integrators and thirdparty RD institutions to reach consensus, make joint efforts and unite forces, to accelerate the innovation of products, solutions and business models, speed up the creation of autonomous network capabilities, enabling digitalization of society, quality improvement and benefits generation of services, and cost reduction and efficiency increase of OM, helping digital economy construction and digitalization and intelligentization of various industries. IG1218B China Mobiles Practice on Autonomous Networks v1.1.0  TM Forum 2021. All Rights Reserved. Page 21 of 23 6. Abbreviations and Acronyms Abbreviation Definition AI Artificial Intelligence AICDE Artificial Intelligence, Internet of Things, Cloud Computing, Big Data, Edge Computing CHBN Customer, Home, Business, New FPgrowth Frequent Pattern Growth ICT Information and Communications Technology KPI Key Performance Indicator KQI Key Quality Indicator SRTE Segment RoutingTraffic Engineering Xgboost eXtreme Gradient Boosting IG1218B China Mobiles Practice on Autonomous Networks v1.1.0  TM Forum 2021. All Rights Reserved. Page 22 of 23 7. References 1 Financial Report of CHINA MOBILE2020 2 TM Forum Autonomous Networks Empowering Digital Transformation For The Telecoms Industry. httpswww.tmForum.orgresourcesstandardautonomousnetworksempoweringdigital transformationtelecomsindustry 3 TM Forum IG1193 Cross Industry Autonomous Networks Vision and Roadmap. httpswww.tmForum.orgresourceshowtoguideig1193crossindustryautonomous networksvisionandroadmapv10 4 TM Forum IG1230 Autonomous Network Technical Architecture. httpswww.tmForum.orgresourceshowtoguideig1230autonomousnetworkstechnical architecturev100 5 TM Forum IG1218 Autonomous Networks Business Requirements and Architecture. httpswww.tmForum.orgresourceshowtoguideig1218autonomousnetworksbusiness requirementsandarchitecturev110 6 TM Forum Catalyst Project AI Empowers 5G Intelligent Operations. httpswww.tmForum.orgcatalystsaiempowered5gintelligentoperations 7 TM Forum ANSDO Collaboration Develop Autonomous Network Roadmap and Landscape document. httpsprojects.tmForum.orgwikidisplayASCWP02Workingpages3ADevelopAutono mousNetworkRoadmapandLandscapedocument 8 LFN EUAG Intelligent Network and AI for Survey for Telecom Operators, Vendors and AI communities. httpswww.surveymonkey.comrWS6HMM5 9 TM Forum Autonomous Networks Empowering digital transformation for smart societies and industries. httpswww.tmForum.orgresourceswhitepapersautonomousnetworksempowering digitaltransformationforsmartsocietiesandindustries 10TM Forum IG1252  Autonomous Network Levels Evaluation Methodology  1.0.0 httpsprojects.tmForum.orgwikidisplayANPIG1252AutonomousNetworkLevelsEvalu ationMethodology1.0.0 1 Artificial Intelligence, Internet of Things, Cloud Computing, Big Data, Edge Computing IG1218B China Mobiles Practice on Autonomous Networks v1.1.0  TM Forum 2021. All Rights Reserved. Page 23 of 23 8. Administrative 8.1. Version History Version Number Date Modified Modified by Description of changes 1.0.0 28May2021 Alan Pope Final edits prior to publication. 1.1.0 30Jul21021 Alan Pope Final edits prior to publication. 8.2. Release History Release Status Date Modified Modified by Description of changes Pre production 28May2021 Alan Pope Initial release Production 26Jul2021 Adrienne Walcott Updated to reflect TM Forum Approved status Pre production 30Jul2021 Alan Pope Updated to v1.1.0 Production 17Sep2021 Adrienne Walcott Updated to reflect TM Forum Approved Status 8.3. Acknowledgements 8.3.1. Guide Lead  Author Member Title Company Lingli Deng Lead Researcher  Technical Manager China Mobile Feng Chengcheng Specialist, PM, AI, and Smart Operation Center China Mobile